Publication title over
two lines maximum
SUB HEADER TO GO HERE
MONTH YEAR
FIFA Equipment
Regulations
2025
2
Table of contents
PART ONE
5
INTRODUCTION
5
1. THESE REGULATIONS
6
2. SCOPE OF APPLICATION OF THESE REGULATIONS
7
2A
Parties bound by these Regulations
7
2B
Competitions and Matches covered by these Regulations
8
2C
Areas of the Match venue covered by these Regulations
9
2D Enforcement
10
3. LEGAL CONDITIONS
10
PART TWO
11
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND
EQUIPMENT COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
11
4. GENERAL PRINCIPLES
12
5. MANUFACTURING CONSIDERATIONS
13
5A
Safety
13
5B
Construction
15
5C
Special manufacturing techniques
15
5D Production and circularity
15
5E
Uniformity
16
5F
Interior areas
16
6. COLOURS
16
7. NAMES AND NUMBERS
23
8. TEAM IDENTIFIERS
27
9. BADGES AND COMMEMORATIVE SYMBOLS
29
9A
Official FIFA Event Badges
29
9B
FIFA World Champions Badge
29
9C
Commemorative symbols
30
9D Recognition of continental titles (Member Associations)
and national titles (Clubs)
32
3
10.DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
33
11.MANUFACTURER IDENTIFIERS
35
12.SPONSOR ADVERTISING
37
PART THREE
38
COMPULSORY PLAYING ITEMS IN ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
38
13.PLAYING KIT (1): SHIRT
39
14.PLAYING KIT (2): SHORTS
53
15.PLAYING KIT (3): SOCKS
57
16.BOOTS AND SHINGUARDS
61
17. FOOTBALLS
62
PART FOUR
63
OPTIONAL PLAYING ITEMS IN ASSOCIATION FOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
63
18.GLOVES
64
18A Goalkeepers’ gloves
64
18B Gloves worn by Outfield Players
65
19.HEAD COVERINGS
66
19A Caps
66
19B Other Permitted Head Coverings
67
20.HAIRBANDS, HEADBANDS AND WRISTBANDS
69
21.UNDERGARMENTS
70
22.SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
71
PART FIVE
73
NON-PLAYING ITEMS
73
23.FORMAL ATTIRE
74
24.OUTERWEAR
74
25.WARM-UP AND SUBSTITUTE BIBS
76
26.BAGS AND OTHER ITEMS
77
27.CELEBRATORY ATTIRE
78
4
PART SIX
80
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT AT FIFA BEACH SOCCER
COMPETITIONS AND FUTSAL COMPETITIONS
80
28.BEACH SOCCER
81
29.FUTSAL
82
PART SEVEN
83
CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT AT FIFA EFOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
83
30.GENERAL PROVISIONS
84
31.EFOOTBALL SHIRT
85
32.EFOOTBALL CAPS
90
33.OUTERWEAR
91
PART EIGHT
95
MATCH OFFICIALS AND MATCH SUPPORT PERSONNEL
95
34.MATCH OFFICIALS
96
35.MATCH SUPPORT PERSONNEL
96
ANNEXE A
98
RULES OF INTEPRETATION AND DEFINED WORDS AND
PHRASES
98
1. RULES OF INTERPRETATION
98
2. DEFINED WORDS AND PHRASES
99
ANNEXE B
104
APPROVAL PROCESS
104
1. INTRODUCTION
104
2. SUBMISSION OF SAMPLES FOR PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION
105
3. TIMELINE OF APPLICATION FOR FIFA APPROVAL
106
4. PROCESSING THE APPLICATION
106
5. GRANT OF FIFA APPROVAL
109
6. REFUSAL OF FIFA APPROVAL
110
ANNEXE C
111
FIFA KIT SUMMARY
111
PART ONE
INTRODUCTION
6
1.
THESE REGULATIONS
1.1
The FIFA Council approved these Regulations on 3 October 2024. They come
into force on 1 January 2025, replacing the 2022 FIFA Equipment Regulations
with effect from that date.
1.2
These Regulations govern the Playing Kit and other clothing and equipment
used by the Team Delegations of Member Associations, Clubs, or eFootball
Clubs (as applicable), as well as eFootball Players competing on an individual
basis, when they are participating in any of the Competitions and Matches
identified in section 2B.
1.2.1
Part Two of these Regulations sets out principles that apply generally
to all such Playing Kit and other clothing and equipment.
1.2.2
Part Three sets out provisions that are specific to the Playing Kit and
other items that must be worn or used by Players during a Match in a
Competition that is not a FIFA beach soccer or futsal Competition or
FIFA eFootball Competition and during International Friendly Matches;
while Parts Four and Five set out provisions specific to the other
clothing and equipment that may be worn or used by the members
of a Team Delegation during, before or after such Matches.
1.2.3
Part Six sets out the clothing and other items that must, or may,
be worn by the members of a Team Delegation in connection with a
FIFA beach soccer Competition or a FIFA futsal Competition.
1.2.4
Part Seven sets out the clothing and other items that must, or may, be
worn by eFootball Players and any other members of a Team Delegation
in connection with a FIFA eFootball Competition.
1.2.5
Part Eight sets out the kit and other clothing to be worn by the Match
Officials and by the Match Support Personnel at the Matches specified
in these Regulations.
1.2.6
Annexe A sets out rules to be used to interpret these Regulations,
as well as the meaning of the defined words and phrases used in these
Regulations. The meaning of the defined words and phrases used in
these Regulations are identified by capitalised text as set out in article
13 paragraph 1, article 14 paragraph 1, and article 15 paragraph 1.
1.2.7
Annexe B sets out the process to be followed by Member Associations,
Clubs, eFootball Clubs, and eFootball Players to obtain FIFA’s
approval for Playing Kit and other clothing and equipment covered
by these Regulations.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Introduction
7
1.3
Other FIFA rules and regulations also apply to these issues, as follows:
1.3.1
The primary rules applicable to the use of kit and equipment
on the field of play are set out in Law 4 of the Laws of the Game,
as amended from time to time. In the event of conflict between the
Laws of the Game and these Regulations, the Laws of the Game prevail.
1.3.2
The FIFA Disciplinary Code, as amended from time to time, will govern
any action taken to enforce these Regulations. Any sanctions or
consequences imposed pursuant to the FIFA Disciplinary Code or
other relevant rules to which FIFA is bound (e.g. the World Anti-Doping
Code) that conflict with these Regulations (e.g. because they mandate
the use of neutral uniforms by a Team in a Competition covered by
these Regulations) prevail over these Regulations.
1.3.3
The regulations applicable to a specific Competition (in particular,
the FIFA Media and Marketing Regulations) and/or FIFA circulars may
include further provisions relating to the use of clothing and other
equipment in that Competition, in particular concerning, clothing and
other equipment used in Competition areas other than the Controlled
Areas, and provisions aimed at preventing Ambush Marketing.
In case of conflict between these Regulations and such Competition
regulations and/or FIFA circulars, FIFA shall clarify by circular which
provisions prevail.
1.4
FIFA may amend these Regulations from time to time to take account of
technological and/or other developments. The amendments will come into
effect on the date on which they are published, unless FIFA specifies otherwise.
1.5
Confederations and Member Associations are encouraged to use these
Regulations as the basis for regulating the use of clothing and other equipment
in their own competitions.
2.
SCOPE OF APPLICATION OF THESE REGULATIONS
2A
Parties bound by these Regulations
2.1
These Regulations apply to Member Associations and Clubs fielding Teams
in a Competition or Match specified in section 2B. They also apply to other
entities (such as private commercial gaming teams) fielding Teams in a FIFA
eFootball Competition specified in section 2B (each, an “eFootball Club”).
Each such Member Association, Club and eFootball Club must comply in full,
and must ensure that each individual member of its Team Delegation complies
in full, with these Regulations and with any circulars, guidelines, directives,
and/or decisions issued by FIFA at any time in relation to these Regulations.
8
2.2
Each individual member of a Team Delegation, each eFootball Player that enters
a FIFA eFootball Competition on an individual basis, and each Match Official
and Match Support Person must also comply in full with these Regulations
and with any circulars, guidelines, directives, and/or decisions issued by FIFA
at any time in relation to these Regulations.
2B
Competitions and Matches covered by these Regulations
2.3
These Regulations apply to the following competitions (collectively the
“Competitions”):
2.3.1
They apply in full to the following FIFA competitions (“FIFA Final
Competitions”):
2.3.1.1
the FIFA World Cup™ final competition, the FIFA Women’s
World Cup™ final competition, and the FIFA Club World Cup™;
2.3.1.2
the FIFA U-20 World Cup™ final competition, the FIFA U-20
Women’s World Cup™ final competition, the FIFA U-17 World
Cup™ final competition, the FIFA U-17 Women’s World Cup™
final competition, and the Blue Stars/FIFA Youth Cup™ final
competition; and
2.3.1.3
the FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup™ final competition, and
the FIFA Futsal World Cup™ final competition.
2.3.2
With the exception of any competition that is organised by a
Confederation, they also apply in full to the competitions staged
as qualifying competitions for the FIFA Final Competitions
(“FIFA Preliminary Competitions”).
2.3.3
With the exception of any competition that is organised by a
Confederation, they also apply in full to the competitions that function
as qualifying competitions for the Men’s, Women’s and Youth Olympic
Football Tournaments.
2.3.4
They also apply in full to the following eFootball competitions
(“FIFA eFootball Competitions”):
2.3.4.1
team-format competitions in which eFootball Players in
a Team representing a Member Association compete
against other eFootball Players in Teams representing
other Member Associations (e.g. FIFAe Nations Cup™);
2.3.4.2
team-format competitions in which eFootball Players in a
Team representing a Club or eFootball Club compete against
other eFootball Players in Teams representing other Clubs
or eFootball Clubs (e.g. FIFAe Club World Cup™); and
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Introduction
9
2.3.4.3
competitions in which eFootball Players compete against
each other on an individual-format basis, either on behalf
of a Member Association, Club or eFootball Club, or in an
individual capacity (e.g. FIFAe World Cup™).
2.3.5
Unless FIFA states otherwise, these Regulations will also apply in full
to any successor to any of the above Competitions and to any new
FIFA competitions.
2.4
Parts Two and Three of these Regulations also apply to International Friendly
Matches unless confirmed otherwise by FIFA. Unless confirmed otherwise by
FIFA, the Member Associations and/or Confederations will implement and
enforce Parts Two and Three of these Regulations in respect of International
Friendly Matches, and the relevant Member Associations and/or their
Confederations will regulate all other aspects of clothing and equipment use
at International Friendly Matches.
2C
Areas of the Match venue covered by these Regulations
2.5
These Regulations apply to clothing worn and equipment used on the day
of the Match1 by members of the Team Delegations, the Match Officials,
and the Match Support Personnel in all areas of the Match stadium or arena
(as the case may be) for which an official accreditation or other security
device (not just a Match ticket) is required for access, including the field of
play and areas immediately surrounding the field of play, the stage or platform
(in respect of FIFA eFootball Competitions), technical areas, warm-up areas,
the referee review area, tunnel, dressing rooms, medical and doping control
areas, media and interview areas, arrival and departure zones, and all corridors
and other spaces connecting such areas (the “Controlled Areas”). The VOR
is also considered a Controlled Area for the purposes of these Regulations,
even if it is located away from the Match venue.
2.6
These Regulations also apply to the stands and VIP/hospitality areas in the
Match venue, but only to the extent that members of the Team Delegation
are required to be present there while acting in that capacity (e.g. technical
overflow seats in the stand). They do not apply to representatives or affiliates
of a Team or to members of a Team Delegation who are present in such areas
as ticket-holders or invited guests. Other FIFA rules and/or regulations may
apply to such individuals, depending on the Competition.
1
On non-Matchdays, the FIFA Media and Marketing Regulations of the Competition in
question apply.
10
2D
Enforcement
2.7
Where applicable, the Match Commissioner will report to FIFA any instance of
apparent non-compliance with these Regulations. The Match Commissioner
may confiscate the item(s) in question and provide them to FIFA along with a
written report.
2.8
Whether or not a report is received from the Match Commissioner, FIFA may
investigate any instances of potential non-compliance with these Regulations,
with a view to potentially bringing proceedings under the FIFA Disciplinary
Code. All parties have a duty to cooperate fully and in good faith with
such investigations.
3.
LEGAL CONDITIONS
3.1
FIFA will resolve any matters that are not provided for in these Regulations
and will present any measures that need to be taken where events of force
majeure impact on the ability to implement these Regulations.
3.2
Decisions made by FIFA in respect of enforcement of these Regulations are
final and binding and may not be appealed.
3.3
Proceedings for alleged breach of these Regulations will be brought before
the FIFA Disciplinary Committee. Notwithstanding this and in accordance
with article 57 of the FIFA Statutes, any dispute arising in relation to these
Regulations and any challenges to decisions made by FIFA in respect of these
Regulations are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Court of Arbitration
for Sport. The applicable law governing the dispute/challenge will be the FIFA
Statutes and these Regulations, with Swiss law applying subsidiarily.
3.4
FIFA will not be liable in any circumstances to any Member Association, Club,
eFootball Club, Team Delegation member, Manufacturer, sponsor, Confederation,
or other party for any claims, losses, fees, damages, costs, taxes or other
charges of any kind whatsoever that may arise or be incurred as a direct or
indirect result of the implementation of these Regulations.
PART TWO
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE
TO ALL ITEMS OF
CLOTHING AND
EQUIPMENT COVERED BY
THESE REGULATIONS
12
4.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES
4.1
This Part Two applies to all of the items of Playing Kit and other clothing and
equipment covered by these Regulations.
4.2
Where FIFA so requires in accordance with Annexe B, a Member Association,
Club or eFootball Club (or eFootball Player who is entering a FIFA eFootball
Competition in an individual capacity) must not use or allow any member of
their Team Delegation to use any Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment
covered by these Regulations in connection with a Competition or a Match
set out in section 2B unless and until the Member Association, Club, eFootball
Club or eFootball Player in question has obtained written confirmation that the
item complies in full with these Regulations and any other applicable rules or
regulations, and/or with any circulars, guidelines, directives, and/or decisions
issued by FIFA, and contains only elements that are specifically authorised
under these Regulations.
4.3
No item (of Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment or otherwise) may be
worn or used in any Controlled Area if FIFA considers that it:
4.3.1
is dangerous, offensive or indecent, includes political, religious,
discriminatory or personal slogans, statements, or images, or otherwise
does not comply in full with the Laws of the Game;
4.3.2
confers an unfair sporting advantage or fundamentally alters an
essential aspect of the game;
4.3.3
seeks to imply a connection with FIFA, or to exploit goodwill belonging
to FIFA, or otherwise constitutes Ambush Marketing; or
4.3.4
has not been formally approved, where required, by FIFA in accordance
with Annexe B as being fully compliant with these Regulations and/or
with any other applicable rules or regulations, and/or with any circulars,
guidelines, directives, and/or decisions issued by FIFA.
4.4
Each Member Association, Club and eFootball Club, and each eFootball
Player who is entering a FIFA eFootball Competition in an individual capacity,
must ensure that they have all of the rights and licences required for the
members of their Team Delegation to wear and use their Playing Kit and
other clothing and equipment in Competitions and/or International Friendly
Matches (as applicable), and that the wearing and use of such Playing Kit,
clothing, and other equipment will not infringe the rights of any other party.
4.5
Each Member Association, Club and eFootball Club, and each eFootball Player
who is entering a FIFA eFootball Competition in an individual capacity, must
indemnify FIFA in respect of any claims, losses, fees, damages, costs, taxes,
or other charges or expenses of any kind whatsoever that FIFA incurs because
of the failure or alleged failure of the Member Association, Club, eFootball
Club or eFootball Player (as applicable) to comply in full with the requirement
in article 4.4.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
13
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
5.
MANUFACTURING CONSIDERATIONS
5A
Safety
5.1
The Playing Kit and other clothing and equipment falling within the scope of
these Regulations must not pose any risk of inflicting injury or illness on the
person wearing or using it or on anyone else. In particular:
5.1.1
It must be possible to close a collar opening on a Shirt securely for
the duration of the Match.
5.1.2
No collar opening on a Shirt may be longer than 5cm, measured down
from the front of the opening.
Art. 5.1.1
Max. 5cm opening
art. 5.1.2
14
5.1.3
Items used to fasten the collar on a Shirt – such as zippers, buttons, or
magnets – must not be of a shape or made of a material that creates
a risk of injury, e.g. laceration or contusion. A drawstring may not be
used to fasten the collar.
5.1.4
Zippers (whether metal or of another material) are not permitted on
gloves (including goalkeeper gloves) if they pose a threat of injury to
the person wearing the gloves or to others.
5.1.5
If drawstrings are incorporated into the waist of Shorts, they must be
kept inside the Shorts at all times.
5.1.6
Pockets are not permitted on any item of Playing Kit.
Art. 5.1.5
FIFA Equipment Regulations
15
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
5B
Construction
5.2
All elements incorporated into a Playing Kit item (including Names, Numbers, FIFA
Event Badges, FIFA World Champions Badges, Team Identifiers, Manufacturer
Identifiers, and Decorative Elements) must be permanently incorporated by
stitching, heat transfer, a special manufacturing technique listed in article 5.5,
or any other technique approved by FIFA. Temporary or removable attachments
(e.g. using Velcro) are not permitted.
5.3
No item of Playing Kit, or anything displayed on an item of Playing Kit, may be
made of a reflective material, or of a material that changes colour or appearance
due to an external influence, such as pressure, light, temperature, or water
or another liquid.
5.4
Team Identifiers and Manufacturer Identifiers may only be constructed as
holograms if the identifier remains visible at all angles (i.e. the hologram cannot
incorporate more than one image) and the hologram does not materially
impact the perceived colour of the item on which it is displayed.
5C
Special manufacturing techniques
5.5
The following manufacturing techniques are permitted:
5.5.1
jacquard weave (i.e. weaving which incorporates a specific pattern into
a fabric using threads of the same basic colour as the surrounding
fabric);
5.5.2
tonal print (i.e. a printing technique used to incorporate elements,
patterns, etc. of a similar colour into an item);
5.5.3
embossing (i.e. adding texture to the surface of a fabric using heated
rollers under pressure to produce a combination of raised and
flat areas);
5.5.4
laser etching (i.e. incorporating a specific pattern into a fabric using a
laser machine); and
5.5.5
any other special manufacturing techniques that FIFA approves from
time to time.
5D
Production and circularity
5.6
Playing Kits and other clothing and equipment that fall within the scope of
these Regulations are to be sourced and produced taking into account the
FIFA Sustainable Sourcing Code, whenever reasonably possible.

In particular, special attention shall be paid to ensure that items and their
packaging are made of recycled materials and are recyclable in the territory
within which they are used.
16

Whenever possible, packaging should be avoided. Where that is not possible,
it should be kept to a minimum. Finally, Member Associations, Clubs and
eFootball Clubs should aim to establish reuse or take-back schemes for used
and unused Playing Kits and other clothing and equipment, whenever they
are replaced with new ones.
5E
Uniformity
5.7
All goalkeepers in a Team must wear the same Playing Kit as each other, and
all Outfield Players in the Team must wear the same Playing Kit as each other.
All items of a Team’s Playing Kit must be produced by the same Manufacturer.
5F
Interior areas
5.8
Interior surfaces and other areas of an item may not display anything that is
visible on the exterior or that may be used as a means of Ambush Marketing.
For example, standard manufacturer labels such as those located on the neck
of a shirt should not be oversized or clearly visible from more than 5m away
in the event the Player removes the item of clothing (such as after the Match).
6.
COLOURS
6.1
Save where these Regulations require otherwise, there is no limit on the
number of colours that may appear on a Team’s Playing Kit. Furthermore,
unless stated otherwise, the restrictions in these Regulations on the use
of colours on Playing Kit items do not apply to colours appearing in Team
Identifiers, Manufacturer Identifiers, and/or Decorative Elements displayed
on Playing Kit.
6.2
The colours used on the respective Playing Kits worn by the two Teams
contesting a particular Match must contrast sufficiently to allow the Match
Officials, Players, Team Officials, media and spectators in the stadium, and
television/broadcast viewers (including, whenever reasonably practicable, those
with a colour vision deficiency) to distinguish clearly between the Players and
the Match Officials, between the different Teams, and between the goalkeepers
and the Outfield Players on each Team, even in difficult weather conditions.
For these purposes:
6.2.1
Each item of Playing Kit worn by one Team must contrast sufficiently
with the equivalent item of Playing Kit worn by the other Team to allow
that clear distinction.
6.2.2
Each Team must have a First-Choice Playing Kit and at least one
Alternative Playing Kit in clearly differing colours or colour combinations,
for use where necessary to ensure that clear distinction.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
17
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
6.2.3
The colour(s) of the First-Choice Playing Kit must contrast clearly with
the colour(s) of each Alternative Playing Kit.
6.2.4
To that end, where a First-Choice Playing Kit item is predominantly light
in colour, at least one equivalent Alternative Playing Kit item should
be predominantly dark in colour, and vice versa.
6.2.5
Each Team is encouraged to have a second Alternative Playing Kit, which
will commonly be referred to as the “third kit”, in a colour or colours
differing from both its First-Choice Playing Kit and its first Alternative
Playing Kit.
6.2.6
The colour(s) of any item(s) worn underneath the Playing Kit must not
be visible through the Playing Kit and must in no way affect the colour
of, or the visual impression given by, the Playing Kit.
First-Choice
Playing Kit
Alternative
Playing Kit
First-Choice
Playing Kit
Alternative
Playing Kit
18
Playing Kit
Outfield Player
Playing Kit
goalkeeper
First-Choice
Playing Kit
Alternative
Playing Kit
Playing Kit
goalkeeper
Playing Kit
goalkeeper
FIFA Equipment Regulations
19
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
First-Choice
Playing Kit
Alternative
Playing Kit
First-Choice
Playing Kit
Alternative
Playing Kit
Playing Kit
Outfield Player
Playing Kit
goalkeeper
20
6.3
If a Playing Kit item features more than one colour,2 one of the colours must be
clearly predominant (the “Dominant Colour”) over the other colour(s), and must
predominate to the same extent on the front and back of the Playing Kit item.
2
For these purposes, close variants and shades of a colour will be considered to be a
single colour, whereas broader variants and shades of a colour will be considered to be
multiple colours.
Art. 6.3
Art. 6.3
FIFA Equipment Regulations
21
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
6.4
The only exception to article 6.3 is that the Shirts of the Outfield Players
(but not the Shirt of a goalkeeper) may feature a basic geometric repeated
pattern (such as stripes, hoops or checks) with two equally prominent colours.
In such cases, the Shirt of at least one of the Team’s Alternative Playing Kits
must not have either of those two colours as its Dominant Colour.
Art. 6.4
Art. 6.4
22
6.5
Where FIFA or the Match Officials consider that there is an insufficient contrast
between the colours used on the Playing Kits of two Teams contesting a particular
Match to distinguish clearly between the Players and the Match Officials, between
the different Teams, and/or between the goalkeepers and the Outfield Players
on a Team, they may require one Team (even after the Match has started,
if necessary) to switch to, or to combine, different items from its different Playing
Kits as necessary in order to achieve a clear distinction.
6.6
Any tape or similar material applied to a Playing Kit item during a Match must
match the Dominant Colour of the Playing Kit item (or one of the two equally
prominent colours of the Playing Kit item, where applicable).
6.7
FIFA shall measure the colour contrast used on Playing Kits with a
spectrophotometer, which will provide an objective means of making a
decision. Where the Confederation uses the FIFA Equipment Regulations for
their tournaments, the Confederation may choose whether to adopt and/or
apply these specific articles.
6.7.1
Measurements shall be taken using a spherical spectrophotometer
with an aperture of 6.6mm and a measurement area of 4mm on a
white point of D65 and a standard observer angle of 10°. A spectrally
neutral grey card with 18% reflectance shall be placed under the single
layer of fabric to be measured, and each final measurement shall be
calculated from the average of three readings, at 0°, 90° and 45°.
6.7.2
The contrast between the Shirt’s colours in the Number Zone must
be less than or equal to a Delta L of 25. Colour combinations with a
Delta L difference value greater than 25 require a single-colour patch
on the back of the Shirt to serve as the Number Zone.
6.7.3
Player Numbers must contrast with the background colour(s) in the
Number Zone by a Delta L value equal to or higher than 30.
6.7.4
Tonal prints must be included in a tonal variation of the background
colour(s) of the item of Playing Kit into which they are incorporated,
with a contrast that is less than or equal to a Delta L value of 10.
Background colours are measured before the associated tonal print.
6.7.5
Jacquard weave thread must be the same colour as the fabric into
which it is woven. The jacquard weave must not dominate, contain a
colour that contrasts with, or otherwise affect the distinctiveness of
the item of Playing Kit into which it is incorporated. When measured,
the contrast between the two weaves must be less than or equal to
a Delta L value of 5. Background colours are measured before the
associated jacquard weave thread.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
23
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
7.
NAMES AND NUMBERS
7.1
In FIFA Final Competitions, the Player’s Name must appear on the back of the
Player’s Shirt. The Player’s last name or popular name shall be affixed above
the number on the back of the Shirt and shall be clearly legible in accordance
with these Regulations.

The name on the Shirt must bear a strong resemblance to the Player’s popular
name as indicated on FIFA’s official list of Players and in any other official FIFA
documentation. In case of doubt, FIFA shall have the final decision regarding
the name that appears on the back of the Player’s Shirt.

A Player’s Number must appear on the back of the Player’s Shirt and on the
Player’s Shorts in all Competitions (other than FIFA eFootball Competitions) and
International Friendly Matches.

In addition, other Competition regulations may require or permit the Player’s
Number on the front of the Player’s Shirt and/or the Player’s Name on Playing
Kit items and/or other equipment.
7.2
All such Names and Numbers must:
7.2.1
correspond to the Name and/or Number (as applicable) of the Player
as it appears on the official list of Players submitted in accordance with
the regulations specific to the Competition or International Friendly
Match in question, and must not represent an abbreviated form of
that Name;
7.2.2
be of one single colour, which must contrast sufficiently with the
surrounding colour(s) of the Playing Kit item (or of the Number
Zone, where used)3 and the colour selected must consider colour
vision deficiency, and be clearly legible, so that other Players, Match
Officials, Team Officials, media and spectators in the stadium, and
television/broadcast viewers are able to identify the Player in question;
7.2.3
(in the case of Names) comprise letters of Latin characters only,
in upper or lower case (phonological diaereses, such as accents or
umlauts, are also permitted);
3
A Number Zone must be used where the Name or Number would not be sufficiently legible
otherwise (as may happen, for example, with a patterned shirt).
24
Art. 7.2
Art. 7.2
FIFA Equipment Regulations
25
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
7.2.4
be consistent in terms of style, font, size, position and colour for all
Players in the same Team, save that:
7.2.4.1
the colour of the Number on the Shirt may be different
from the colour of the Number on the Shorts; and
7.2.4.2
the colour of the goalkeepers’ Names and Numbers may
differ from the colour of the Names and Numbers of the
Outfield Players;
7.2.5
not include any Team Identifiers, save that a Team Emblem or Team
Symbol no bigger than 5cm2 may be included on the bottom of each
digit of a Number displayed on the back of the Shirt;
7.2.6
not include any Decorative Elements; and
7.2.7
not function as a trademark or include anything that gives the visual
impression of a Manufacturer Identifier or Sponsor Advertising, or that
creates an association with a Manufacturer, a sponsor, or other third
party, or that constitutes a promotion or other commercial message of
any kind.
Art. 7.2
Number Zone
art. 7.2.2
26
7.3
Such Names and Numbers may:
7.3.1
incorporate a border or shadow outline in a different colour to improve
the legibility of the Name or Number, provided this does not impair
the predominance of the Dominant Colour of the Playing Kit item
in question;4
7.3.2
contain breathing holes that are not more than 2mm wide.
7.4
Each digit of a Number may be divided into no more than four segments,
each segment being no more than 2mm apart.
4
Any such border or shadow outline shall not be taken into account in the measurement of
Name and Number height and stroke width under these Regulations.
Breathing holes
max. 2mm wide
art. 7.3.2
Segment max.
2mm apart
art. 7.4
Team Emblem or
Team Symbol
max. 5cm2
art. 7.2.5
FIFA Equipment Regulations
27
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
8.
TEAM IDENTIFIERS
8.1
Once approved by FIFA, Playing Kit and/or other clothing or equipment may display
the following types of Team Identifier in accordance with these Regulations:
Type of
Examples5
graphic identifier
Member Association
Club/eFootball Club
Team Emblem6

(Colombia)

(FC Bayern Munich)
Team Symbol

(Netherlands Women’s team)

(Arsenal FC)
National Flag

(Japan)
Coat of Arms

(Seal of Guadalajara, MEX)
Regional Flag

(Canton of Ticino, SUI)
5
These are examples only. Each of them would still need to be approved by FIFA prior to use.
6
A dedicated Team Emblem that commemorates a jubilee or other significant event may be
used on Playing Kit in place of the usual Team Emblem subject to FIFA’s prior approval.
Such commemorative emblem may incorporate words, numbers (e.g. dates) and/or
Decorative Elements, provided it meets the applicable size limits. For FIFA beach soccer
Competitions, a Member Association may use its dedicated beach soccer Team Emblem.
For FIFA futsal Competitions, a Member Association may use its dedicated futsal Team
Emblem. For FIFA eFootball Competitions, a Member Association or Club may use its
dedicated eFootball Team Emblem. References in these Regulations to “Team Emblem”
include such dedicated Team Emblems.
28
Type of
Examples7
word identifier
Member Association
Club/eFootball Club
Country Name/Club
Name or Team Name
(respectively)
GHANA
RIVER PLATE
Member Association
name
REAL FEDERACIÓN
ESPAÑOLA DE FÚTBOL
(Spain)
Team Nickname
LES CAGOUS
(New Caledonia)
NERAZZURRI
(FC Internazionale Milano)
Team Slogan
KITA GARUDA
(Indonesia)
YOU’LL NEVER WALK ALONE
(Liverpool FC)
Foundation Year
1863
(England)
1895
(CR Flamengo)
8.2
Where its use is permitted, the Team Identifier must be displayed in the same
colour and form across all respective Playing Kit items of Outfield Players
and goalkeepers used by the Team in a particular Competition (save that it
may be included in a different colour on the Team’s Alternative Playing Kit for
that Competition).
8.3
A Club’s Team Identifiers must also:
8.3.1
be formally recognised by its Member Association and Confederation,
and must be used by the Team either: (a) in all domestic or in all
continental competitions in the same season as the FIFA Competition
in question; or (b) where applicable, in the domestic and/or continental
season just ended or just beginning; and
8.3.2
(if they are, or include, a Regional Flag or Coat of Arms) be formally
approved by the relevant authorities in the country or region concerned
for use by the Club on its Playing Kit.
8.4
The Team Identifier(s) must not:
8.4.1
impair the ability of Match Officials, Players, Team Officials,
media and spectators in the stadium, and television/broadcast
viewers (including, whenever reasonably practicable, those with
a colour vision deficiency) to distinguish clearly between the
Players and the Match Officials, between the different Teams,
or between the goalkeepers and the Outfield Players on each Team,
even in difficult weather conditions;
7
These are illustrative examples only. Each of them would still need to be approved by FIFA
prior to use.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
29
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
8.4.2
undermine the contrast between a Team’s First-Choice Playing Kit and
any Alternative Playing Kit;
8.4.3
impair the predominance of a Dominant Colour on a Playing Kit item;
8.4.4
impair the legibility of a Name or Number on a Playing Kit item;
8.4.5
(unless it relates to an eFootball Club, in which case article 12 applies)
include anything that gives the visual impression of a Manufacturer
Identifier or Sponsor Advertising, or that creates an association with
a Manufacturer, a sponsor, or other third party, or that constitutes a
promotion or other commercial message of any kind;
8.4.6
contain any words, images, statements or relationship to messages
that are political, religious or discriminatory, or personal slogans,
statements or images of any kind; or
8.4.7
touch any of the other Team Identifiers or any Name, Number,
FIFA Event Badge, FIFA World Champions Badge or Manufacturer
Identifiers on the Playing Kit (save that the Team Emblem may be
incorporated into Numbers as set out in article 7.2.5).
8.5
There are no restrictions on the shape of the Team Identifier(s), save that any
representation of the National Flag must be in the official geometric form and
usual proportions of that National Flag, unless its elements are being used as
a Decorative Element as per article 10.4.
9.
BADGES AND COMMEMORATIVE SYMBOLS
9A
Official FIFA Event Badges
9.1
Each Member Association, Club and eFootball Club participating in a Competition
or an International Friendly Match must display on its Playing Kit any official FIFA
Event Badge(s) provided by FIFA, in accordance with the terms and conditions
of use issued by FIFA from time to time.
9B
FIFA World Champions Badge
9.2
Subject to the applicable terms and conditions of use issued by FIFA and any
regulations specific to the respective competition, the Team that won the most
recent edition of any of the following Competitions may display a FIFA World
Champions Badge on its Shirts in all competitions and International Friendly
Matches (as applicable) while still the reigning champions:
9.2.1
FIFA World Cup™;
9.2.2
FIFA Women’s World Cup™;
9.2.3
FIFA Futsal World Cup™;
30
9.2.4
FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup™; and
9.2.5
FIFA Club World Cup™.
9C
Commemorative symbols
9.3
A five-pointed FIFA Winners’ Star, or such other symbol as FIFA may specify,
may be worn by a Member Association’s men’s or women’s senior national
representative team (and by each corresponding age group team that competes
for that Member Association in the same discipline: see Figure 1) for each edition
of the following FIFA Competitions that has been won by that senior team:
9.3.1
FIFA World Cup™;
9.3.2
FIFA Women’s World Cup™;
9.3.3
FIFA Futsal World Cup™;
9.3.4
FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup™; and
9.3.5
FIFAe Nations Cup™.
FIFA World Champions Badge
art. 9.2
Women’s national
Team
Men’s national Team
FIFA Equipment Regulations
31
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
Figure 1: An example of the Teams of a single Member Association that may display FIFA
Winners’ Stars
FIFA titles won:
FIFA World Cup™
FIFA Women’s World Cup™
FIFA Futsal World Cup™
FIFA Beach Soccer World Cup™
FIFAe Nations Cup™
Display of FIFA Winners’ Stars
per national representative Team:
Senior men’s national Team
Senior women’s national Team
U-20 men’s national Team
U-20 women’s national Team
U-17 men’s national Team
U-17 women’s national Team
Futsal senior men’s national Team
Beach soccer senior men’s national Team
FIFAe Nations Cup™ Team
9.4
The year of the respective FIFA title win (e.g. “1994” or “94”) may appear within
a FIFA Winners’ Star.
9.5
There is no equivalent symbol for a Club that has won a FIFA Club World Cup™
(or successor competition).
32
9D
Recognition of continental titles (Member Associations) and
national titles (Clubs)
9.6
In FIFA Preliminary Competitions (if the relevant Competition regulations so
allow) and in International Friendly Matches, but not in FIFA Final Competitions,
a Member Association may display on its Team’s Playing Kit an official badge
issued by the relevant Confederation, commemorating the Team winning the
most recent edition of the highest continental competition corresponding to
the competitions listed in article 9.2, provided that such badge and its display
comply with all of the provisions of these Regulations that would apply if the
badge were a FIFA World Champions Badge, and does not include any Team
Identifier, Decorative Element, Manufacturer Identifier, and/or Sponsor Advertising.
9.7
A Club may display stars denoting the number of times it has won its country’s
top domestic league and/or any continental competitions on its Team’s Playing
Kit in FIFA Competitions, adjacent to the Team Emblem or Team Symbol,
if such stars are also displayed to the same extent when the Club plays in that
domestic league and any continental competitions.
FIFA Winners’ Stars
art. 9.3
Women’s national
Team
Men’s national Team
FIFA Equipment Regulations
33
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
10.
DECORATIVE ELEMENTS
10.1
A “Decorative Element” is any kind of visual representation or design
feature – such as artwork, an abstract design, a simple geometric design,
a watermark, or a tonal image (such as an image of an animal or a culturally
relevant landmark – see examples under Figure 2) that appears on, or is
incorporated into, an item of Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment
(for example, in trim along a seam). Team Identifiers, Manufacturer Identifiers
and Sponsor Advertising are excluded from this definition.
Figure 2: Examples of Decorative Elements
34
10.2
Decorative Elements may be displayed on, or incorporated into, Playing Kit
items and other clothing and equipment in accordance with these Regulations,
provided they are approved by FIFA.
10.3
A Decorative Element must not:
10.3.1
limit the ability of Match Officials, Players, Team Officials, media and
spectators in the stadium, and television/broadcast viewers (including,
whenever reasonably practicable, those with a colour vision deficiency)
to distinguish clearly between the Players and the Match Officials,
between the different Teams, and between the goalkeepers and the
Outfield Players on each Team, even in difficult weather conditions;
10.3.2 undermine the contrast between a Team’s First-Choice Playing Kit and
any Alternative Playing Kit;
10.3.3 dominate a Playing Kit item or impair the predominance of a Dominant
Colour on a Playing Kit item;
10.3.4
impair the legibility of a Name or Number on a Playing Kit item;
10.3.5 function as a trademark or include anything that gives the visual
impression of a Manufacturer Identifier or Sponsor Advertising, or that
creates an association with a Manufacturer, a sponsor, or other third
party, or that constitutes a promotion or other commercial message of
any kind; or
10.3.6 portray, or give the impression of, a person’s face or identity, or the
shape of a country or territory.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
35
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
10.4
A Decorative Element may incorporate elements of a Team Identifier.
In particular, it may incorporate elements of a National Flag (e.g. its colours)
even if they do not maintain the official geometric form and usual proportions
of the National Flag.
10.5
Unless otherwise stated below in respect of a particular item, there is no limit
on the number, the size, or the positioning of the Decorative Element(s) on
the Playing Kit item or other clothing or equipment.
11.
MANUFACTURER IDENTIFIERS
11.1
The following types of Manufacturer Identifier8 may be displayed on Playing
Kit and/or other clothing or equipment in accordance with these Regulations,
once they have been approved by FIFA:
8
These are illustrative examples only. Each of them would still need to be approved by FIFA
prior to use.
Name/Word Mark
Logo/Graphic Mark
Composite Mark
(name and logo)
Product line
(name/logo/
Composite Mark)
Script (i.e. a word
mark written in a
speciﬁc font)
Technology Label
Quality Seal
NEW
BALANCE
Examples of Manufacturer Identiﬁers 8
36
11.2
Technology Labels and Quality or Sustainability Seals may be included as a
means of evidencing the technological purpose and functioning of the item
in question and/or as a means of evidencing the sustainable sourcing of the
material used to make the item. They are treated in these Regulations as a type
of Manufacturer Identifier, unless stated otherwise in a particular context.
11.3
A Manufacturer Identifier may be of any shape. It must not:
11.3.1 limit the ability of Match Officials, Players, Team Officials, media,
and spectators in the stadium, and television/broadcast viewers
(including, whenever reasonably practicable, those with a colour vision
deficiency) to distinguish clearly between the Players and the Match
Officials, between the different Teams, and between the goalkeepers
and the Outfield Players on each Team, even in difficult weather
conditions;
11.3.2 undermine the contrast between a Team’s First-Choice Playing Kit and
any Alternative Playing Kit;
11.3.3 impair the predominance of a Dominant Colour on a Playing Kit item;
11.3.4
impair the legibility of a Name or Number on a Playing Kit item;
11.3.5 touch, or be positioned adjacent to, any other Manufacturer Identifier
or any Name, Number, or Team Identifier on the item in question;
11.3.6 contain or constitute any form of machine-readable code, such as a
barcode or a QR code that provides a link to further information; or
11.3.7 incorporate, by any means, any Team Identifier or Sponsor Advertising
or any element(s) thereof.
11.4
A Manufacturer Identifier may appear:
11.4.1 on any buttons, zippers, drawstrings, and/or similar functional device,
as long as it blends in with the colour of the device; and/or
11.4.2
on a size label, care instruction, anti-counterfeit label or similar that
appears on or is attached to the interior surface of the item.

As long as such Manufacturer Identifier is not visible from more than 5m away
(either at all times or in certain conditions, e.g. due to the application of sweat or
other moisture or due to the weather conditions), this use will not be considered
a display of that Manufacturer Identifier and therefore will not count towards
any quotas on Manufacturer Identifier use established in these Regulations.
11.5
Where these Regulations permit the use of an MI Band on more than one
Playing Kit item, the MI Band must be identical on each Playing Kit item.
It may not touch, or be positioned adjacent to, any Manufacturer Identifier or
any Name, Number, or Team Identifier on the item in question.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
37
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ITEMS OF CLOTHING AND EQUIPMENT
COVERED BY THESE REGULATIONS
12.
SPONSOR ADVERTISING
12.1
Sponsor Advertising and/or third-party advertising is not permitted on
the Playing Kit or any other playing item of a Team representing a Member
Association in a Competition or an International Friendly Match.
12.2
Sponsor Advertising approved by FIFA is permitted for a Team representing
a Club or eFootball Club in a Competition, but only:
12.2.1
on the identified clothing and equipment, in the same form on each
item; and
12.2.2
if it also appears on the clothing and equipment worn by that Team in at
least one of the Team’s other domestic and/or continental competitions
in that season (or, where applicable, in the season just completed or
just beginning).
12.2.3 Any sponsor advertising on official playing items, pre-match training
shirts, anthem jackets, etc. or any other non-playing items worn by the
players or team officials of a participating Football Club not provided for
in these Regulations shall fall within the relevant articles of the approved
FIFA Media and Marketing Regulations and/or the FIFA circulars issued
for the competition in which the Football Club is participating.
12.3
Sponsor Advertising approved by FIFA is also permitted on the Playing Kit of an
eFootball Player entering a FIFA eFootball Competition in an individual capacity.
12.4
In any Competition in which Sponsor Advertising is permitted, the Sponsor
Advertising must:
12.4.1
only advertise a single product or service or a single, non-composite
brand;
12.4.2
not advertise tobacco products (including smokeless tobacco products
and electronic tobacco products), drinks with an alcohol content
exceeding 15% ABV, weapons, or pornography or other adult material;
and
12.4.3
not contravene any advertising laws or regulations in the country in
which the Match takes place.
12.5
Other rules and regulations applicable to FIFA eFootball Competitions may
also impose additional Sponsor Advertising product category restrictions.
PART THREE
COMPULSORY PLAYING
ITEMS IN ASSOCIATION
FOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
39
13.
PLAYING KIT (1): SHIRT
13.1
Shirts that are part of the official Playing Kit for Competitions have the following
aspects :
13.1.1
Back Area: the entire back of the Shirt, excluding the Collar Zone and
the Sleeves.
13.1.2
Chest Area: the top half of the front of the Shirt, excluding the Collar
Zone and the Sleeves.
13.1.3
Collar Zone: a 3cm-wide band around the neck opening of the Shirt.
If the Shirt has a collar that folds over, the Collar Zone also includes
both sides of the folded-over part.
13.1.4
Elbow Point: where the point of the Player’s elbow is located when the
elbow is bent.
13.1.5
Free Zone: an area at least 12cm high and 8cm wide on each Sleeve,
positioned symmetrically along the Shoulder Seam, and centred
between the Shoulder Point and the Elbow Point.
13.1.6
Front Area: the Chest Area and Torso Area on the front of the Shirt,
but not the Collar Zone or the Sleeves.
13.1.7
Lateral or Outer Seam: a real or virtual line running along the lateral
edge of the Torso Area up to the base of the Sleeve, viewed from the
front or the rear perspective, as if ironed flat.
13.1.8
Shoulder Point: where the Chest Area, Back Area, and Sleeves meet.
13.1.9
Shoulder Seam: a real or virtual line running along the lateral edge of
the Sleeves of a Shirt, viewed from the front or the rear perspective,
as if ironed flat.
13.1.10 Sleeves: the arm coverings, starting at the Shoulder Point and ending at
or above the Elbow Point (short Sleeves) or at the wrist (long Sleeves).
13.1.11 Torso Area: the bottom half of the front of the Shirt, immediately below
the Chest Area.
40
13.2
Shirt colour(s):
13.2.1
As per article 6.3, the Front Area and the Back Area of the Shirt
must feature the same single Dominant Colour. The Sleeves must
be the same colour(s) as each other, which must not undermine the
predominant visual impression of the single Dominant Colour on the
Front Area and the Back Area of the Shirt.
Chest
Area
Torso
Area
Front
Area
Back
Area
Collar Zone
Shoulder Seam
Sleeves
Shoulder
Seam
Lateral or
Outer Seam
Free Zone
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
41
Art. 13.2.1
Art. 13.2.1
42
13.2.2 As the sole exception to the single Dominant Colour rule, the Front
Area of the Shirt of an Outfield Player (but not a goalkeeper) may
feature a basic geometric repeated pattern (such as stripes, hoops,
or checks) featuring two equally prominent colours. In such a case:
13.2.2.1 the Back Area of the Shirt must:
a) feature the same pattern and colours;
b) feature the same two colours, giving them equal
prominence; or
c) feature the lighter colour of the two as its Dominant
Colour; and
13.2.2.2 the Sleeves must feature predominantly the same two
colours as the Front Area of the Shirt, but the Sleeves do
not need to be identical to each other.
Art. 13.2.2
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
43
Art. 13.2.2
Art. 13.2.2
Art. 13.2.2
44
13.2.3
Any prominent additional colour(s) on the Shirt (in particular,
on a sash, bar, or a colour appearing prominently around the
Player’s shoulders) must not undermine the predominant
visual impression of the Dominant Colour (or the two equally
prominent colours, as applicable) of the Shirt.
13.2.4
If the prominent additional colour on the Shirt is different
from the Dominant Colour of the Shirt, FIFA may require
that the Shirt of at least one of the Team’s Alternative
Playing Kits features neither that prominent colour nor
that Dominant Colour.
Art. 13.2.3
Art. 13.2.3
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
45
13.3
The Player’s Name:
13.3.1
Where the Player’s Name must, or may, be included on the Shirt, it must
be positioned on the Back Area, at least 4cm above the Player’s Number.
13.3.2
The letters of the Name must be between 5cm and 7.5cm high.
13.4
The Player’s Number:
13.4.1
The Player’s Number on the back of the Shirt must be:
13.4.1.1
20-35cm (women)/25-35cm (men) high and 2-5cm in stroke
width (each digit);
13.4.1.2 positioned in the centre of the Back Area;
13.4.1.3 (where necessary to ensure the Number is legible) located
within a Number Zone that:
a) has one horizontal boundary 2cm above the highest
point of the Number and the other horizontal
boundary 3cm below the lowest point of the Number;
b) has one vertical boundary 3cm from the left edge of
the left-hand digit, and the other vertical boundary
3cm from the right edge of the right-hand digit (or of
the same digit, if there is only one);
c) is the same Dominant Colour as the Shirt (unless that
would mean the Number is illegible, in which case
the Number Zone must be a colour that ensures the
Number is legible);
d) does not include any Team Identifier, other than as
permitted by article 7.2.5; and
e) does not include any Manufacturer Identifier; and
Art. 13.2.3
46
13.4.1.4 entirely visible when the Shirt is tucked into the Shorts.
13.4.2
Where the Player’s Number is required on the front of the Shirt,
it must be:
13.4.2.1 10-15cm high and 1-3cm in stroke width (each digit);
13.4.2.2 positioned in the Chest Area (in the centre or at or towards
one side); and
13.4.2.3 (where necessary to ensure the Number is legible) within
a Number Zone that:
a) is proportionate in size to the size of the Number, and
big enough to ensure the Number is legible whatever
the conditions;
b) is the same Dominant Colour as the Shirt (unless that
would mean the Number is illegible, in which case
the Number Zone must be a colour that ensures the
Number is legible); and
c) does not include any Team Identifier or Manufacturer
Identifier.
Between 5cm
and 7.5cm high
art. 13.3.2
Stroke width
between 2-5cm
art. 13.4.11
Number Zone horizontal
boundary 3cm
art. 13.4.1.3
Number Zone
horizontal
boundary 2cm
art. 13.4.1.3
Between
20-35cm (women)
and
25-35cm (men) high
art. 13.4.1.1
Number Zone vertical
boundary 3cm
art. 13.4.1.3
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
47
13.5
Team Identifiers:
13.5.1
One or more of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed
(in each case, no more than once) within the Chest Area of the Shirt:
13.5.1.1
Team Emblem – no bigger than 100cm2;
13.5.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 100cm2;
13.5.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
13.5.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; and
13.5.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
13.5.2
Where both the Team Emblem (or Team Symbol) and the Country
Name (or Club Name, Team Name or Team Nickname) are displayed
in the Chest Area of the Shirt, they must be adjacent to each other.
13.5.3
The only Team Identifier that may be displayed on the Sleeves is the
National Flag or Regional Flag (as applicable). It may be displayed once
on each Sleeve, between the Shoulder Point and the Elbow Point but
outside of the Free Zone. It must be no bigger than 25cm2 in size.
13.5.4
Up to two Team Identifiers may be displayed at the centre of the Collar
Zone in the Back Area of the Shirt. Each Team Identifier must be no
bigger than 12cm2 and must be at least 4cm above the Player’s Name,
with any lettering or numbers no more than 2cm high.
13.5.5
In addition, in accordance with article 10.4, elements of Team Identifiers
may appear on the Shirt as part of a Decorative Element.
13.5.6
One Team Identifier may be displayed on the Shirt as part of a special
manufacturing technique, as per article 5.5. The colour used must
blend in with the Dominant Colour of the Shirt and must not affect
its predominance.
13.6
Decorative Elements may be included on the Shirt.
13.7
Official FIFA Event Badges/recognition of titles/Match customisation:
13.7.1
The Free Zones must be:
13.7.1.1
kept free of any Team Identifier, Manufacturer Identifier, or
other mark or feature of any kind, the space being reserved
instead for the exclusive display of FIFA Event Badges;
48
13.7.1.2 kept free of any Decorative Element that might impair the
prominence of, or distract from, the FIFA Event Badges to
be displayed in the Free Zones (but Decorative Elements
that do not do either of those things are permitted in the
Free Zones);
13.7.1.3
made of the same fabric and by the same technique as the
rest of the Sleeve, which fabric and technique must not
impede the application of FIFA Event Badges; and
13.7.1.4
of a colour that blends in with the colour of the rest of the
Sleeve.
13.7.2
The Shirts of Teams representing Member Associations must display:
13.7.2.1
in the Free Zone on the right Sleeve, the official FIFA
Event Badge provided by FIFA for the Competition in
question; and
13.7.2.2 in the Free Zone on the left Sleeve, any other official badge
provided by FIFA for the Competition in question (e.g. official
campaign badge, etc.).
13.7.3
FIFA Winners’ Stars may be displayed in the Chest Area of the Shirt,
but only if adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team Symbol. Each individual
star may be no more than 2cm in diameter, and separate stars must
be positioned no more than 2cm apart.
13.7.4
In FIFA Preliminary Competitions, a continental championship winners’
badge no bigger than 8x5.5cm may be displayed once on the Shirt,
either:
13.7.4.1
in the Chest Area; or
13.7.4.2 on one Sleeve, between the Shoulder Point and Elbow Point
but outside the Free Zone.
13.7.5
The Shirts for a particular Match may display in the Chest Area either
the respective Country or Club Names, the National Flags or Club
Emblems of the opposing Teams (subject to the consent of the other
Team), the date of the Match, and the name of the host city and/or
country of the Match, together being a maximum total size of 50cm2,
and with any letters and numbers no higher than 2cm.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
49
13.8
Captain’s armband:
13.8.1
For FIFA Final Competitions, the captain of each Team must wear the
captain’s armband as issued or authorised by FIFA, as the relevant
competition organiser, if provided. If FIFA provides a choice of captain’s
armband, the captain should wear the one that contrasts most clearly
with the Sleeve on which it is worn.
13.8.2 In other Competitions and in International Friendly Matches,
any captain’s armband not provided by FIFA and worn by the captain
of a Team:
13.8.2.1 must be of a colour or colour(s) so as to ensure a clear
contrast with the Sleeve on which it is worn;
13.8.2.2 may not be incorporated into but rather must be separate
from the Shirt itself;
13.8.2.3 must not include any Manufacturer Identifiers, Sponsor
Advertising or Decorative Elements;
13.8.2.4 may display the word “captain” (or an abbreviation or
translation thereof) in a legible font and with lettering no
higher than 5cm.
13.8.2.5 must not display any political, religious, commercial or
personal slogans, messages, statements or images of any
kind in any language or form.
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 13.9.1
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.1
Country Name
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.1.4
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
Team Symbol
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.2
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
1-3cm stroke width
art. 13.4.2.1
Quality Seal
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
50
Team Slogan
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.4
At least 4cm
between Name
and Number
art. 13.3.1
Free Zone
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art.13.9.2.1
National Flag
max. 25cm2
art. 13.5.3
MI Band
art. 13.9.2.2
Free Zone
Captain‘s
armband
art.13.8
or
adidas
Umbro
No more than
2cm apart
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
51
13.9
Manufacturer Identifiers:
13.9.1
One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed
once on the Chest Area of the Shirt.
13.9.2
Either:
13.9.2.1 one graphic form of Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than
20cm2 may be displayed once on each Sleeve, but it must
not be wholly visible when viewing the Shirt from the front
or the back; or
13.9.2.2 an MI Band may be included on both the left-hand side
and on the right-hand side of the Shirt (same MI Band on
both sides), in a continuous band that is no more than 8cm
wide, as follows:
a) around the end of the Sleeves; or
b) along the Shoulder Seam or along the Lateral or Outer
Seam of the Shirt, provided it is not wholly visible
when viewing the Shirt (as worn) from either the front
or the back.
13.9.3
One Technology Label and one Quality or Sustainability Seal, each
no bigger than 10cm2, may be included once each on the front or the
back of the Shirt, in each case with its top edge no more than 15cm
above the bottom edge of the Shirt.
13.9.4
Another Quality or Sustainability Seal no bigger than 5cm2 may be
included once anywhere on the Shirt other than in the Collar Zone,
Chest Area, or Sleeves.
Match customisation
max. 50cm2 total
art. 13.7.5
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 13.9.1
MI Band
art. 13.9.2.2
FIFA Winners’ Stars
max. 2cm diameter,
spaced max. 2cm apart
art. 13.7.3
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.1
52
Team Symbol
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.4
or
adidas
Umbro
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 13.9.2.2
No more than
2cm apart
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
53
14.
PLAYING KIT (2): SHORTS
14.1
Shorts that are part of the official Playing Kit for Competitions have the following
aspects:
14.1.1
Lateral or Outer Seam: a real or virtual line running along the lateral
edge of the Shorts as ironed flat, viewed from the front or the
rear perspective.
14.1.2
Left Leg: the front and back of the left half of the Shorts, viewed from
the Player’s perspective.
14.1.3
Right Leg: the front and back of the right half of the Shorts, viewed
from the Player’s perspective.
14.1.4
Waist Edge: the uppermost edge of the Shorts.
Right Leg
Left Leg
Lateral or
Outer Seam
54
14.2
Colour(s): the Shorts must feature the same single Dominant Colour when
viewed from either the front or the back.
14.3
The Player’s Name may not appear on the Player’s Shorts.
14.4
The Player’s Number:
14.4.1
The Player’s Number must appear on the front of the Player’s Shorts,
on either the Left Leg or the Right Leg. The Number must be:
14.4.1.1
10-15cm high and 1-3cm in stroke width (each digit);
14.4.1.2 (where necessary to ensure legibility) positioned within a
Number Zone that:
a) is proportionate in size to the size of the Number,
and provides sufficient space around the Number
to ensure the legibility of the Number whatever the
weather conditions;
Art. 14.2
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
55
b) is the same Dominant Colour as the Shorts (unless
that would mean the Number is illegible, in which case
the Number Zone must be a colour that ensures the
Number is legible); and
c) does not include any Team Identifier or Manufacturer
Identifier; and
14.4.1.3 entirely visible when the Shirt is untucked and hanging
loose over the Waist Edge.
14.5
Team Identifiers:
14.5.1
One or more of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed
(in each case, no more than once) on the front of the Shorts, either
at the bottom of the Left Leg or the Right Leg or centred on the front
Waist Edge:
14.5.1.1
Team Emblem – no bigger than 50cm2;
14.5.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2;
14.5.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
14.5.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; and
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
stroke width
1-3 cm
art. 14.4.1.1
National Flag
max. 25cm2
art. 14.5.1.5
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 14.8.3
FIFA Winners’ Stars
max. 2cm
diameter, spaced
max. 2cm apart
art. 14.6
Team Symbol
max. 50cm2
art. 14.5.1.2
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 14.8.1
56
14.5.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
14.5.2 Where both the Team Emblem (or Team Symbol) and the Country
Name (or Club Name or Team Name or Team Nickname) are displayed
on the Shorts, they must be adjacent to each other.
14.5.3 One Team Identifier may be displayed on the Shorts as part of a
special manufacturing technique, as per article 5.5. The colour used
must blend in with the Dominant Colour of the Shorts and must not
affect its predominance.
14.6
FIFA Winners’ Stars:
14.6.1
FIFA Winners’ Stars may be displayed on the front of the Shorts,
but only if adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team Symbol.
14.6.2 Each individual star may be no greater than 2cm in diameter,
and separate stars must be positioned no more than 2cm apart.
14.7
Decorative Elements may be included on the Shorts.
14.8
Manufacturer Identifiers:9
14.8.1
One form of Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be
displayed on the Shorts, in any position on either leg.
9
This article 14.8 will also apply to any tracksuit bottoms worn by a goalkeeper during a
Match.
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 14.8.1
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 14.8.2.1
Team Symbol
max. 50cm2
art. 14.5.1.2
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
57
14.8.2 An MI Band may be displayed on the Shorts, once on each leg (same
MI Band on both legs), as follows:
14.8.2.1 around the bottom edge of the Shorts; or
14.8.2.2 along the Lateral or Outer Seam, provided it is not wholly
visible when viewing the Shorts (as worn) from either the
front or the back.
14.8.3 One Technology Label and one Quality or Sustainability Seal, each no
bigger than 10cm2, may be included once on the front or the back of
the Shorts, in each case with its top edge no more than 5cm above
the bottom edge of the Shorts, or with its bottom edge no lower than
5cm below the Waist Edge.
15.
PLAYING KIT (3): SOCKS
15.1
Socks that are part of the official Playing Kit for Competitions have the following
aspects:
15.1.1
Foot Area: the part of the sock that is not visible when boots are worn.
15.1.2 Leg Area: the parts of the sock that remain visible when boots are
worn.
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
art. 14.5.1.1
Team Name
max. 12cm2
art. 14.5.1.3
Manufacturer
Identifier max. 20cm2
art. 14.8.1
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 14.8.2.2
58
15.2
Each Sock within a pair must visually constitute a single piece of material and
must not appear to be cut or altered in any way, when worn by a Player during
a Match. If the Socks are to be covered by tape, the tape must be the same
colour as the Socks.
15.3
Sock colour(s):
15.3.1 The Leg Area of both Socks must be the same Dominant Colour or
feature a basic repeated geometric pattern (such as hoops) featuring
two equally prominent colours, provided that such colours appear
throughout all regions of the Leg Area.
15.3.2 Where the Shirt displays a basic repeated geometric pattern (such as
stripes, hoops or checks) featuring two equally prominent colours,
and the Shorts are a different Dominant Colour, the Dominant Colour
or the two equally prominent colours of the Socks in that Playing Kit
must be one or two of those three colours (as applicable).
15.3.3 The colour of any support bandage or similar item that covers any
part of the Leg Area of a Sock must blend in with the colour(s) of the
Leg Area of the Sock.
Leg Area
Foot Area
Art. 15.3.1
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
59
15.4
The Player’s Name and Number may not appear on the Player’s Socks.
15.5
Team Identifiers:
15.5.1 One or more of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed
(in each case, no more than once) anywhere on one or both Socks in
the pair, as follows:
15.5.1.1 Team Emblem or Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2;
15.5.1.2 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
15.5.1.3 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; and
15.5.1.4
National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
Art. 15.3.2
60
15.6
FIFA Winners’ Stars:
15.6.1 FIFA Winners’ Stars may be displayed in the centre of the Leg Area of
each Sock.
15.6.2 Each individual star must be no greater than 2cm in diameter,
and separate stars must be positioned no more than 2cm apart.
15.7
Decorative Elements may be included on the Socks.
15.8
Manufacturer Identifiers:
15.8.1
One or two Manufacturer Identifiers, with a combined maximum size
of 20cm2 (i.e. one identifier of 20cm2 or two identifiers each of 10cm2),
may be displayed horizontally in the Leg Area of each Sock. They must
be the same on each Sock in the pair.
15.8.2 An MI Band may be included across the top edge of each Sock
(same MI Band on each Sock). The MI Band must be continuous and
no more than 5cm wide.
15.8.3 One further Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm² may appear
once in the Foot Area of each Sock.
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.1
Team
Name
max. 12cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.2
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.8.1
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Compulsory playing items in association football competitions
61
16.
BOOTS AND SHINGUARDS
16.1
These Regulations do not restrict the types of footwear and shinguards that
Players may wear.
16.2
Players on the same Team do not have to wear the same footwear or shinguards.
They may wear footwear or shinguards that are made by different manufacturers
and that differ in colour and/or appearance.
16.3
In the event that the colour of a part of a Player’s boots diminishes the contrast
between the colour of the Player’s Socks and the colour of the Socks of the
opposing Team, the Match Officials may require the Player to cover that part
of the boots with a temporary material (such as tape) in order to restore that
colour contrast.
16.4
The footwear and shinguards may display the Player’s Name and/or Number,
and any Team Identifiers, Decorative Elements, and Manufacturer Identifiers
(provided in the case of shinguards that they are not visible outside or beneath
the Socks).
16.5
Other than Manufacturer Identifiers, footwear and shinguards may not display
anything that gives the visual impression of Sponsor Advertising or that
creates an association with a sponsor, or other third party, or that constitutes
a promotion or other commercial message of any kind.
16.6
The Match Commissioner or the Match Officials may prohibit the use of any
footwear or shinguards that they consider to be dangerous.
MI Band
art. 15.8.2
FIFA Winners’
Stars
max. 2cm
diameter
(as worn)
art. 15.6
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2 (as worn)
art. 15.8.3
MI Band
max. 5cm
(as worn)
National Flags
max. 25cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.4
MI Band
art. 15.8.2
62
17.
FOOTBALLS
17.1
FIFA will provide the footballs to be used in FIFA Final Competitions.
17.2
In Competitions other than FIFA Final Competitions, the footballs to be used
will be provided by the relevant Competition organisers or as directed by
them. Unless FIFA states otherwise, those footballs:
17.2.1
may display the following Team Identifiers of the home Team, in each
case no more than once:
17.2.1.1
Team Emblem – no bigger than 50cm2;
17.2.1.2
Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2; and
17.2.1.3
Team Name – no bigger than 12cm2, with the lettering no
higher than 2cm;
17.2.2
may display the following Manufacturer Identifiers in any position on
the football:
17.2.2.1 one Quality Seal no bigger than 50cm2;
17.2.2.2 one other Manufacturer Identifier displayed any number
of times, but in each case no bigger than 50cm2; and
17.2.2.3 the name of the type of football (including any brand name)
no bigger than 30cm2;
17.2.3
may display or incorporate any number of Decorative Elements,
in any position and of any size;
17.2.4
except for approved FIFA quality marks, must not include FIFA marks
and/or logos and/or Competition identifiers unless approved or
required by FIFA;
17.2.5
may display the respective Country Names or National Flags of the
opposing Teams, the date of the Match, and the name of the host city
and/or country of the Match;
17.2.6
may identify the type of pitch surface or conditions for which the
football has been produced (e.g. winter, grass, artificial turf, indoor
or sand); and
17.2.7
must not display any Sponsor Advertising.
17.3
The requirements in article 17.2 also apply to footballs to be used in International
Friendly Matches.
PART FOUR
OPTIONAL PLAYING
ITEMS IN ASSOCIATION
FOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
64
18.
GLOVES
18A
Goalkeepers’ gloves
18.1
Goalkeepers in the same Team may wear gloves that are made by different
Manufacturers and/or that differ in size, colour, and/or other appearance.
18.2
Names and Numbers:
18.2.1 The goalkeeper’s Name and Number may each appear once on
each goalkeeper glove with numbering and lettering no higher
than 2cm. They must be identical to the Name and Number on the
goalkeeper’s Shirt.
18.3
Team Identifiers:
18.3.1
One of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed once on each
goalkeeper glove, in any position, as follows:
18.3.1.1 Team Emblem – no bigger than 50cm2;
18.3.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2;
18.3.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
18.3.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; or
18.3.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
18.4
Manufacturer Identifiers:
18.4.1
One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed
once on each goalkeeper glove, in any position.
18.4.2 One Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be displayed once
on each goalkeeper glove, in any position.
18.4.3 One Quality or Sustainability Seal may be displayed once on each
goalkeeper glove, in any position, and must be no bigger than 10cm2.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Optional playing items in association football competitions
65
18B
Gloves worn by Outfield Players
18.5
Outfield Players on the same Team may wear gloves that differ in size and/or
other appearance. However, the gloves must:
18.5.1
be made by the Manufacturer that makes the Team’s Playing Kit;
18.5.2 be either the same colour as the Dominant Colour of the respective
Sleeve of the Player’s Shirt or they must be black; and
18.5.3 not feature the Player’s Name or Number.
18.6
Team Identifiers:
18.6.1
One of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed once on each
glove, in any position, as follows:
18.6.1.1
Team Emblem – no bigger than 12cm2;
18.6.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 12cm2;
18.6.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
18.6.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; or
18.6.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 12cm2.
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 18.4.1
Technology Label
max.10cm2
art. 18.4.2
Quality Seal
max.10cm2
art. 18.4.3
Goalkeeper’s
Name and Number
lettering max. 2cm high
art. 18.2.1
National Flag
max. 25cm2
art. 18.3.1.5
66
18.7
Manufacturer Identifiers:
18.7.1
One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed
once on each glove, in any position.
18.7.2
One Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be displayed once
on each glove, in any position.
18.7.3
Up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals or
one of each) may be displayed on each glove, in any position, one no
bigger than 10cm2, the other no bigger than 5cm2.
19.
HEAD COVERINGS
19A
Caps
19.1
Goalkeepers on the same Team may wear caps on the field of play that differ in
size, colour, and/or other appearance. They must be made by the Manufacturer
that makes the Team’s Playing Kit.
19.2
Off the field of play, Outfield Players and other Team Delegation members
may wear caps (meaning any type of cap, hat, knitted cap, or bonnet) that
differ in size, colour, and/or other appearance. If they are not made by the
Manufacturer that makes the Team’s Playing Kit, they must not display any
Manufacturer Identifiers.
19.3
The Player’s Name and Number:
19.3.1 The goalkeeper’s Name and/or Number may each appear once
on the goalkeeper cap with numbering and lettering no higher
than 2cm. They must be identical to the Name and Number on the
goalkeeper’s Shirt.
19.3.2 The cap worn by an Outfield Player off the field of play may also display
the Player’s Name and/or Number.
19.4
Team Identifiers:
19.4.1 One of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed once in any
position on each goalkeeper cap and on the cap of each other member
of the Team Delegation, as follows:
19.4.1.1 Team Emblem – no bigger than 50cm2;
19.4.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2;
19.4.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Optional playing items in association football competitions
67
19.4.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger than
12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; or
19.4.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
19.5
Manufacturer Identifiers:
19.5.1 One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed once
anywhere on the goalkeeper cap/Team Delegation member’s cap.
19.5.2 One Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be displayed once
anywhere on the goalkeeper cap/Team Delegation member’s cap.
19.5.3 Up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals, or
one of each), one no bigger than 10cm2, the other no bigger than 5cm2,
may be displayed (in each case, no more than once) anywhere on the
goalkeeper cap/Team Delegation member’s cap.
19B
Other Permitted Head Coverings
19.6
The only other head coverings that may be worn by Players on the field of play
are those worn for religious reasons, such as hijabs, turbans, or similar items
(“Permitted Head Covering”).
19.7
Players on the same Team may wear Permitted Head Coverings that differ in
size and/or other appearance. However, each Permitted Head Covering must:
19.7.1
be either the same colour as the Dominant Colour on the Player’s Shirt
or it must be black;
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
art. 19.4.1.1
Goalkeeper’s
Name and Number
lettering max. 2cm high
art. 19.3.1
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 19.5.1
68
19.7.2 not feature the Player’s Name or Number or any abbreviation of them;
19.7.3 not feature any Team Identifier or Decorative Element; and
19.7.4 not compromise the safety of the Players on either Team in any way.
For example:
19.7.4.1 it must not be attached to the Shirt;
19.7.4.2 it may not have any form of fastening mechanism around
the neck; and
19.7.4.3 no part(s) of it may extend out from the surface of the head
covering.
19.8
If the Manufacturer of the Permitted Head Covering is also the Manufacturer
of the Player’s Playing Kit, the Permitted Head Covering may feature one
Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2, which must blend in with
the rest of the Permitted Head Covering and not be visible from more than
5m away.
Permitted Head
Covering
art. 19.7
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
not visible from
more than 5m away
art. 19.8
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Optional playing items in association football competitions
69
20.
HAIRBANDS, HEADBANDS AND WRISTBANDS
20.1
Players on the same Team may wear hairbands, headbands, and/or wristbands
that differ in size and/or other appearance. However, they must:
20.1.1
be either the same colour as a colour on the Player’s Shirt, Shorts or
Socks or they must be black or white; and
20.1.2
not feature the Player’s Name or Number or any abbreviation of them.
20.2
Team Identifiers:
20.2.1
One of the following Team Identifiers may be included once in any
position on each hairband, headband, and/or wristband, as follows:
20.2.1.1 Team Emblem – no bigger than 12cm2;
20.2.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 12cm2;
20.2.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
20.2.1.4 Country Name or Club Name (as applicable) – no bigger
than 12cm2, with the lettering no higher than 2cm; or
20.2.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 12cm2.
20.3
Manufacturer Identifiers:

If the Manufacturer of the hairband, headband, and wristbands is also the
Manufacturer of the Playing Kit worn by the Player:
20.3.1
one Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed
once on each headband and/or wristband, in any position;
20.3.2 one Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be displayed once
on each headband and/or wristband, in any position; and/or
20.3.3 up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals,
or one of each), one no bigger than 10cm2, the other no bigger than
5cm2, may be displayed once on each headband and/or wristband,
in any position.
70
21.
UNDERGARMENTS
21.1
Under their Playing Kit, Players may wear underwear, T-shirts, sports bras,
thermal shorts, and/or any sort of cooling apparel (each, an “Undergarment”),
provided that the Undergarment:
21.1.1
is made by the Manufacturer that makes the Team’s Playing Kit;
21.1.2
is not visible outside or beneath the Playing Kit, or, if it is visible:
21.1.2.1 is of the same Dominant Colour as the item it is underneath;
and
21.1.2.2 does not display any Team Identifiers, Manufacturer
Identifiers, or Decorative Elements; and
21.1.3 does not display any Sponsor Advertising.
21.2
An item designed to house electronic performance and tracking systems is
not considered an Undergarment, but instead must comply with article 22.2.
21.3
An Undergarment must not be attached to any part of the Playing Kit.
21.4
An Undergarment may not display the Player’s Name or Number, or any
abbreviation of them.
21.5
An Undergarment may display one Team Identifier.
21.6
An Undergarment may display Manufacturer Identifiers as follows:
21.6.1 One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may appear once
on the front and/or the back of an undershirt or sports bra, positioned
anywhere other than in the Collar Zone.
21.6.2 One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may appear once
anywhere on underwear, undershorts, or thermal shorts.
21.6.3 One Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be displayed once
on each Undergarment, in any position.
21.6.4 Up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals,
or one of each), one no bigger than 10cm2 and the other no bigger
than 5cm2, may be displayed on each Undergarment, in each case no
more than once, in any position.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Optional playing items in association football competitions
71
22.
SPECIAL EQUIPMENT
22.1
Equipment to be used by Players for medical reasons during a Match covered
by these Regulations – such as any form of protective wear, including but not
limited to protective headgear, protective face masks, knee and arm protectors,
eyewear, medical tape for strapping and medical casts or splints – must:
22.1.1 be approved by FIFA, the Match Commissioner or the Match Officials
prior to use;
22.1.2 not feature the Player’s Name or Number or any abbreviation of them;
and
22.1.3 not display any Team Identifier, Manufacturer Identifier, Decorative
Element or other words or marks unless FIFA or the Match
Commissioner or the Match Officials so permit.
22.2
Electronic performance and tracking system equipment may be worn by
Players during a Match covered by these Regulations as follows:
22.2.1 They must be certified and approved for use under the FIFA
Quality Programme for Wearable Electronic Performance and
Tracking Systems.
22.2.2 They must be worn either underneath the Shirt or on the lower limbs.
If the tracking system equipment is worn underneath the Shirt, it must
not protrude outside of the Shirt.
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 21.6.3
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 21.6.1
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 21.6.3
Manufacturer
Identifier max. 20cm2
art. 21.6.2
72
22.2.3 They must not endanger the safety of any Player or Match Official,
whether in their shape, the manner of their construction, the materials
used, or otherwise, and be securely fastened.
22.2.4 They may display the Player’s Name and Number once.
22.2.5 They may not display any Team Identifier, Manufacturer Identifier,
Decorative Element, or Sponsor Advertising.
Player’s Name and
Number only
art. 22.2.4
Must not protrude
outside of the Shirt
art. 22.2.2
PART FIVE
NON-PLAYING ITEMS
74
23.
FORMAL ATTIRE
23.1
Team Officials and Players before and after they play may wear, formal attire
such as a shirt, jacket, tie, suit trousers, skirt, and/or waistcoat (“Formal Attire”)
that displays the following:
23.1.1 Team Identifiers no bigger than 100cm2, in any position and quantity.
23.1.2 FIFA Winners’ Stars, but only if adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team
Symbol. Each individual star must be no greater than 2cm in diameter
and separate stars must be positioned no more than 2cm apart.
23.2
No Manufacturer Identifiers or Sponsor Advertising may be displayed on,
or affixed to, the Formal Attire.
24.
OUTERWEAR
24.1
Team Officials and Players before and after they play may wear, training
shirts, anthem jackets, pre-Match ceremony attire, hoodies, t-shirts, polo
shirts, sweatshirts, tracksuit bottoms, shorts, winter trousers, rainwear,
and/or other forms of outerwear (“Outerwear”). Celebratory Attire is not
included in the definition of Outerwear.
24.2
Each item of Outerwear may display:
24.2.1 Team Identifiers in any size, quantity, and positioning;
FIFA Winners’ Star
max. 2cm diameter
art. 23.1.2
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 23.1.1
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Non-playing items
75
24.2.2 FIFA Winners’ Stars of any size, which must be adjacent to a Team Emblem
or Team Symbol; separate stars must be positioned no more than
2cm apart;
24.2.3 up to five Manufacturer Identifiers, in any position, each no bigger
than 20cm2;
24.2.4 (on upper body Outerwear) up to two MI Bands, as follows:
24.2.4.1 around the end of the Sleeves; and
24.2.4.2 along the Shoulder Seam or along the Lateral or Outer Seam,
provided in each case that it is not wholly visible when viewed
from the front or the back (as worn);
24.2.5 (on lower body Outerwear) up to two MI Bands, as follows:
24.2.5.1 around the bottom edge; and
24.2.5.2 along the Lateral or Outer Seam, provided that it is not
wholly visible when viewed from the front or the back
(as worn).
24.2.6 one Technology Label, in any position, no bigger than 10cm2;
24.2.7 up to two Seals, (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals, or
one of each), one of which may be no bigger than 10cm2, and the other
no bigger than 5cm2, which may be in any position; and
24.2.8 the Team Names or the National Flags of the opposing Teams
(subject to the consent of the other Team), the date of the Match, and the
name of the host city or country of the Match, together being a maximum
total size of 50cm2, and with any letters and numbers no higher than 2cm;

provided always that the Outerwear worn by members of the Team Delegation
next to the field of play must not undermine the clear distinctiveness of the
Playing Kit worn by the Players or the clothing worn by Match Officials on the
field of play.
24.3
For FIFA Final Competitions, no Sponsor Advertising may be displayed on any
Outerwear, save only that upper body Outerwear worn by a Team Delegation
representing a Club in a Competition may have Sponsor Advertising no bigger
than 20cm2 on the front or back, provided it has been approved by FIFA.
76
25.
WARM-UP AND SUBSTITUTE BIBS
25.1
In FIFA Final Competitions, FIFA will supply bibs to each Team (of a different
colour for each Team), to be used for the duration of all Official Training
Sessions (as defined in the applicable Competition regulations) and worn on
Matchdays by the Players while warming up and by the substitute Players
before they are substituted into the Match.
25.2
In Competitions other than FIFA Final Competitions, bibs used by Teams:
25.2.1 must be clearly distinguishable in colour from the Shirts of both Teams
and from the shirts worn by the Match Officials;
25.2.2 may not display the Player’s Name or Number or any abbreviation
thereof;
25.2.3 may display one or more Team Identifiers in any size and quantity and
in any position on the bib;
25.2.4 may display one Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 100cm2,
once in any position on the front of the bib, and once in any position
on the back of the bib; and
25.2.5 may not display any Sponsor Advertising.
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 24.2.3
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 24.2.3
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 24.2.4
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 24.2.5
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Non-playing items
77
26.
BAGS AND OTHER ITEMS
26.1
For FIFA Final Competitions, FIFA may supply bags (e.g. ball nets and/or medical
bags) for use by Team Delegations. These bags may display FIFA marks and
logos and/or identifiers of the relevant Competition. Ball nets may also display
the graphic Manufacturer Identifier of the official supplier of the Match ball.
If instructed by FIFA, Team Delegations must use such bags to the exclusion
of any other comparable items.
26.2
Bags used by Team Delegations within the Controlled Areas (including medical
bags, equipment bags and ball nets) in FIFA Final Competitions:
26.2.1 may display Team Identifiers (in each case no bigger than 100cm2) in
any position and quantity;
26.2.2 in the case of equipment bags only, may display one Manufacturer
Identifier no bigger than 20cm², once, in any position; and
26.2.3 may not display any Sponsor Advertising.
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 100cm2
art. 25.2.4
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 26.2.2
Team Symbol
max. 100cm2
art. 26.2.1
78
26.3
Any other items used by Team Delegation members within the Controlled Areas
(including, by way of example, personal devices, personal bags, accessory
clothing items, and other fashion accessories) in FIFA Final Competitions:
26.3.1 may display Team Identifiers in any position, size, and quantity;
26.3.2 may not display Manufacturer Identifiers or Sponsor Advertising,
or include anything that creates an association with a Manufacturer, a
sponsor, or other third party, or that constitutes a promotion or other
commercial message of any kind; and
26.3.3 must not be used in such a manner that in FIFA’s opinion could amount
to Ambush Marketing.
27.
CELEBRATORY ATTIRE
27.1
A Team may wear T-shirts commemorating their qualification for or their winning
of a FIFA Final Competition (“Celebratory Attire”). That Celebratory Attire:
27.1.1
must all be made by the same Manufacturer;
27.1.2 may display Team Identifiers in any size, position, and quantity;
27.1.3 may refer to the fact of the qualification or the victory, but may not
display any FIFA marks and/or logos or Competition identifiers unless
the Manufacturer has been formally licensed by FIFA to do so;
27.1.4 may display FIFA Winners’ Stars of any size, which must be displayed
adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team Symbol, each star no more than
2cm apart;
No visible
Manufacturer Identifier
or Sponsor Advertising
art. 26.3.2
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Non-playing items
79
27.1.5
may display one Manufacturer Identifier in any position, but no bigger
than 20cm2; and
27.1.6 may not display any Sponsor Advertising.
27.2
In FIFA Final Competitions, Celebratory Attire must be submitted to FIFA for
approval no later than 48 hours prior to the match at which the Celebratory
Attire is to be worn. Celebratory Attire may only be worn on the field of play
after the following official FIFA activities have taken place (during which the
Team must wear the Shirts they wore during the Match in question):
27.2.1
the trophy presentation;
27.2.2 official FIFA photographs; and
27.2.3 official media appearances.
PART SIX
CLOTHING AND
EQUIPMENT AT FIFA
BEACH SOCCER
COMPETITIONS AND
FUTSAL COMPETITIONS
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA Beach Soccer competitions and Futsal competitions
81
28.
BEACH SOCCER
28.1
Each Player on a Team entered in a FIFA beach soccer Competition:
28.1.1 must wear a Shirt that complies with Part Two and article 13;
28.1.2 must wear Shorts that comply with Part Two and article 14;
28.1.3 may wear hairbands, headbands and wristbands that comply with
article 20; and
28.1.4 may wear beach soccer foot bindings (which include other support
bandages, additional socks, and similar items provided for in Law 4
of the FIFA Beach Soccer Laws of the Game)10 that:
28.1.4.1 are of any colour(s);
28.1.4.2 do not display any Team Identifiers or the Player’s Name
or Number;
28.1.4.3 include the following, once in each case, but only in a
manner that blends in with the rest of the foot binding,
and that is not visible from more than 5m away:
a) one Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2;
b) one Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2; and
c) up to two Seals, (either two Quality Seals, two
Sustainability Seals, or one of each), one no bigger
than 10cm2, and the other no bigger than 5cm2; and
28.1.4.4 otherwise do not display anything that functions as a
trademark, that creates an association with a Manufacturer,
a sponsor, or other third party, or that constitutes a
promotion or other commercial message of any kind.
28.2
Each member of a Team Delegation for a FIFA beach soccer Competition may
wear or use any of the optional clothing or equipment referenced in Parts
Four and Five.
10 The Laws of the Game forbid the use of footwear in beach soccer.
82
29.
FUTSAL
29.1
Each Player on a Team entered in a FIFA futsal Competition must wear:
29.1.1 a Shirt that complies with Part Two and article 13;
29.1.2 Shorts that comply with Part Two and article 14;
29.1.3 Socks that comply with Part Two and article 15; and
29.1.4 indoor shoes (either canvas or soft leather training or gymnastic shoes
with soles of rubber or a similar material) compliant with Law 4 of the
FIFA Futsal Laws of the Game.
29.2
In addition, the goalkeeper(s) on a Team entered in a FIFA futsal Competition
may wear padded trousers compliant with Law 4 of the FIFA Futsal Laws of
the Game and that meet the same requirements (amended as necessary to
fit the different context) as set out in article 14.
29.3
Each member of a Team Delegation for a FIFA futsal Competition may wear
or use any of the optional clothing or equipment referenced in Parts Four
and Five.
PART SEVEN
CLOTHING AND
EQUIPMENT AT
FIFA EFOOTBALL
COMPETITIONS
84
30.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
30.1
Each eFootball Player representing a Member Association or a Club in a FIFA
eFootball Competition must wear either:
30.1.1 a Shirt that complies in full with Part Two and article 13 (save that it may
only display a Player Number and/or official FIFA badges as permitted
by article 31); or
30.1.2 a Shirt that complies in full with Part Two and article 31 (an “eFootball
Shirt”).
30.2
Each eFootball Player representing an eFootball Club in a FIFA eFootball
Competition must wear an eFootball Shirt that complies in full with Part Two
(reading “eFootball Club” for “Club”) and article 31.
30.3
Each eFootball Player not representing a Member Association or Club or
eFootball Club competing in a FIFA eFootball Competition in an individual
capacity must wear an eFootball Shirt that complies in full with Part Two and
article 31 (excluding article 31.5).
30.4
While competing in a FIFA eFootball Competition, the eFootball Player must
not wear anything that hides or obscures their Shirt or eFootball Shirt
(as applicable). Any Undergarment that the eFootball Player wears underneath
their Shirt or eFootball Shirt must:
30.4.1 be made by the Manufacturer that makes the eFootball Shirt; and
30.4.2 must not be visible outside or beneath the eFootball Shirt, or, if it is
visible:
30.4.2.1 must not display any Team Identifiers, Manufacturer
Identifiers, or Decorative Elements.
30.5
If a member of a Team Delegation for a FIFA eFootball Competition chooses
to wear a head covering or any item(s) of Outerwear during a FIFA eFootball
Competition, the head covering must comply with article 32 (eFootball Caps)
or section 19B (other Permitted Head Coverings), as applicable, and the
Outerwear must comply with article 33 (Outerwear).
30.6
Save as set out above, while participating in FIFA eFootball Competitions,
Team Delegation members may wear any kind of clothing and any kind of
footwear, as long as it does not display any Sponsor Advertising.
30.7
Items of non-apparel equipment (e.g. controllers) will be addressed elsewhere,
not in these Regulations.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA efootball competitions
85
31.
EFOOTBALL SHIRT
31.1
In this article 31, the terms Back Area, Chest Area, Collar Zone, Free Zone,
Front Area, Shoulder Point, Shoulder Seam, Sleeves, and Torso Area, have
the meanings given to those terms in article 13.1.
31.2
Colour(s):
31.2.1 The eFootball Shirt may be of any colour(s). Article 6 does not apply
to eFootball Shirts.
31.3
Name:
31.3.1 The eFootball Player’s Name (which, for the purposes of this Part Seven,
means the eFootball Player’s given name or their Gamertag registered
with FIFA prior to the FIFA eFootball Competition in question) must
be displayed on the top of the Back Area of the eFootball Shirt, with
its top edge being no more than 8cm below the neck opening.
31.3.2 The letters must be between 5cm and 7.5cm high.
31.4
Number:
31.4.1
An eFootball Shirt may not display any Number for the eFootball Player.
31.5
Team Identifiers:
31.5.1
One of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed once within
the Chest Area of the eFootball Shirt:
31.5.1.1 Team Emblem – no bigger than 100cm2;
31.5.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 100cm2;
31.5.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
31.5.1.4 Country Name or Club Name or eFootball Club Name
(as applicable) – no bigger than 12cm2, with the lettering
no higher than 2cm; or
31.5.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
86
31.5.2 No Team Identifier may be displayed on the Sleeves of the eFootball
Shirt.
31.5.3 One Team Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed at the
centre of the Collar Zone in the Back Area of the eFootball Shirt.
Any lettering or numbers must be no more than 2cm high.
31.5.4 A Team Identifier may be displayed on an eFootball Shirt as part of a
Decorative Element, in accordance with article 10.4.
31.5.5 One Team Identifier may be displayed on the eFootball Shirt as part
of a special manufacturing technique, as per article 5.5. The colour
used must blend in with the colour(s) of the eFootball Shirt.
31.6
FIFA badges:
31.6.1 Each eFootball Player in each Team must display the FIFA Event Badge
provided by FIFA for the FIFA eFootball Competition in question in the
Free Zone on the right Sleeve of the eFootball Shirt, and any other
FIFA Event Badge provided by FIFA in the Free Zone on the left Sleeve
of the eFootball Shirt.
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 31.9.1
MI Band
art. 31.9.3
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 31.5.1.1
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 31.9.4
Quality Seal
max. 10cm2
art. 31.9.5
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA efootball competitions
87

31.6.2 Unless FIFA permits otherwise with respect to any future FIFA eFootball
Competitions, FIFA World Champions Badges may not be displayed
on any clothing items in any FIFA eFootball Competition.
31.7
FIFA Winners’ Stars:
31.7.1
FIFA Winners’ Stars may be worn on the Shirts or eFootball Shirts
(as applicable) of a Team representing a Member Association in a
team-format FIFA eFootball Competition, to commemorate the number
of times that the Member Association in question has previously won
that FIFA eFootball Competition. The star(s) may be displayed in the
Chest Area, but only if adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team Symbol,
with each star no bigger than 2cm in diameter, and multiple stars
spaced no more than 2cm apart.
31.7.2
FIFA Winners’ Stars may not be displayed on eFootball Shirts worn
in FIFA eFootball Competitions contested by Clubs, eFootball Clubs,
and/or eFootball Players participating in an individual capacity.
31.8
Captain’s armband:
31.8.1 For FIFA eFootball Competitions played in a team format, the captain
of each Team may wear a captain’s armband only if provided by FIFA.
If FIFA provides a choice of captain’s armbands, the captain should
wear the one that contrasts most clearly with the Sleeve on which it
is worn.
No more than 8cm
art. 31.3.1
National Flag
max. 25cm2
art. 31.5.1.5
Player’s name
or Gamertag
between
5cm and
7.5cm high
art. 31.3.2
88
31.9
Manufacturer Identifiers:
31.9.1 One Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2 may be displayed
once on the Chest Area of the eFootball Shirt.
31.9.2 No Manufacturer Identifiers may be displayed on the Sleeves of the
eFootball Shirt.
31.9.3 An MI Band may be included on both the left-hand side and on the
right hand-side of the eFootball Shirt (the same MI Band on both
sides), as follows:
31.9.3.1 around the end of the Sleeves; or
31.9.3.2 along the Shoulder Seam or along the Lateral or Outer
Seam of the eFootball Shirt, provided in either case it is not
wholly visible when viewing the eFootball Shirt (as worn)
from the front or the back.
31.9.4 One Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2 may be included once
on the front or the back of the eFootball Shirt, with its top edge no
more than 15cm above the bottom edge of the eFootball Shirt.
31.9.5 One Quality or Sustainability Seal no bigger than 10cm2 may be included
once anywhere on the eFootball Shirt other than in the Collar Zone
or Chest Area or on the Sleeves, with its top edge no more than 15cm
above the bottom edge of the eFootball Shirt.
31.9.6 Another Quality or Sustainability Seal no bigger than 5cm2 may be included
once anywhere on the eFootball Shirt other than in the Collar Zone,
Chest Area, or Sleeves.
31.10
Sponsor Advertising:
31.10.1 Sponsor Advertising is not permitted on eFootball Shirts worn in any
FIFA eFootball Competition contested by Member Associations.
31.10.2 Sponsor Advertising is permitted on eFootball Shirts worn in FIFA
eFootball Competitions contested by Clubs, eFootball Clubs, and/or
eFootball Players participating in an individual capacity, as follows:
31.10.2.1 Sponsor Advertising for two sponsors may be displayed
at the intersection of the base of the Chest Area and the
top of the Torso Area, with a maximum aggregate size
of 400cm2.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA efootball competitions
89
31.10.2.2 Sponsor Advertising for the same or another sponsor may
be displayed on the Back Area, beginning at least 35cm
below the Player’s Name, with a maximum size of 200cm2.
31.10.2.3 Sponsor Advertising for the same or other sponsors may
be displayed along the Shoulder Seam above the Free
Zone on both Sleeves, with a maximum size (in each case)
of 50cm2.
Sponsor Advertising
(except for Member Associations)
max. 50cm2 on each Sleeve
art. 31.10.2.3
Sponsor Advertising
(except for Member
Associations)
max. 400cm2
art. 31.10.2.1
At least 35cm
between Sponsor
Advertising
and eFootball Player’s
Name or Gamertag
art. 31.10.2.2
Sponsor Advertising
(except for Member
Associations)
max. 200cm2
art. 31.10.2.2
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 31.9.3
Free Zone
90
32.
EFOOTBALL CAPS
32.1
The members of a Team Delegation in a FIFA eFootball Competition may wear
caps that are made by the same manufacturer and that are the same or that
differ in size, colour, and/or other appearance (each, an “eFootball Cap”).
32.2
No Names or Numbers may be displayed on eFootball Caps.
32.3
Team Identifiers:
32.3.1 One of the following Team Identifiers may be displayed once on an
eFootball Cap, in any position:
32.3.1.1
Team Emblem – no bigger than 50cm2;
32.3.1.2 Team Symbol – no bigger than 50cm2;
32.3.1.3 Team Name or Team Nickname – no bigger than 12cm2,
with the lettering no higher than 2cm;
32.3.1.4 Country Name or Club Name or eFootball Club Name
(as applicable) – no bigger than 12cm2, with the lettering
no higher than 2cm; or
32.3.1.5 National Flag or Regional Flag or Coat of Arms (as applicable)
– no bigger than 25cm2.
32.4
FIFA Winners’ Stars:
32.4.1 FIFA Winners’ Stars may be worn on the eFootball Caps of a Team
representing a Member Association in a FIFA eFootball Competition,
to commemorate the number of times that the Member Association
in question has previously won that FIFA eFootball Competition. FIFA
Winners’ Stars must be adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team Symbol,
with each star no bigger than 2cm in diameter, and multiple stars
spaced no more than 2cm apart.
32.4.2 FIFA Winners’ Stars may not be displayed on eFootball Caps worn
in FIFA eFootball Competitions contested by Clubs, eFootball Clubs,
and/or eFootball Players participating in an individual capacity.
32.5
Manufacturer Identifiers:

The following may be displayed, once in each case, anywhere on the
eFootball Cap:
32.5.1 one Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2.
32.5.2 one Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA efootball competitions
91
32.5.3 up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals,
or one of each), one no bigger than 10cm2, and the other no bigger
than 5cm2.
32.6
Sponsor Advertising is not permitted on eFootball Caps worn in any FIFA
eFootball Competition.
33.
OUTERWEAR
33.1
Members of the Team Delegation may wear Outerwear compliant with article 24
while participating in FIFA eFootball Competitions.
33.2
Each item of Outerwear may display:
33.2.1 one Team Identifier no bigger than 100cm2, in any position;
33.2.2 one Manufacturer Identifier no bigger than 20cm2, in any position;
33.2.3 (on upper body Outerwear) up to two MI Bands, as follows:
33.2.3.1 around the end of the Sleeves; and/or
33.2.3.2 along the Shoulder Seam or along the Lateral or Outer
Seam, provided in each case that it is not wholly visible
when viewed from the front or the back (as worn);
33.2.4 (on lower body Outerwear) up to two MI Bands, as follows:
33.2.4.1 around the bottom edge; and/or
33.2.4.2 along the Lateral or Outer Seam, provided that in each case
it is not wholly visible when viewed from the front or the
back (as worn);
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 32.5.1
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
art. 32.3.1.1
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 32.5.2
92
33.2.5 one Technology Label no bigger than 10cm2, in any position; and
33.2.6 up to two Seals (either two Quality Seals, two Sustainability Seals,
or one of each), one no bigger than 10cm2 and the other no bigger
than 5cm2, and neither of them with their top edge more than 15cm
above the bottom edge of the Outerwear item.
33.3
FIFA Winners’ Stars:
33.3.1 FIFA Winners’ Stars may be displayed on the Outerwear of a Team
representing a Member Association in a FIFA eFootball Competition,
to commemorate the number of times that the Member Association
in question has previously won that FIFA eFootball Competition.
FIFA Winners’ Stars must be adjacent to a Team Emblem or Team
Symbol, with each star no bigger than 2cm in diameter, and multiple
stars spaced no more than 2cm apart.
33.3.2 FIFA Winners’ Stars may not be displayed on Outerwear worn in
FIFA eFootball Competitions contested by Clubs, eFootball Clubs,
and/or eFootball Players participating in an individual capacity.
33.4
Sponsor Advertising:
33.4.1 Sponsor Advertising is not permitted on Outerwear worn in any FIFA
eFootball Competition contested by Member Associations.
33.4.2 Sponsor Advertising is permitted on Outerwear worn in FIFA eFootball
Competitions contested by Clubs, eFootball Clubs, and/or eFootball
Players participating in an individual capacity, as follows:
33.4.2.1 Sponsor Advertising for one sponsor may be displayed in the
Back Area of any upper body Outerwear, with a maximum
size of 200cm2.
33.4.2.2 Sponsor Advertising for the same or another sponsor may
be displayed below the Manufacturer Identifier on any lower
body Outerwear, with a maximum size of 50cm2.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Clothing and equipment at FIFA efootball competitions
93
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 33.2.3
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 33.2.2
Quality Seal
max. 10cm2
art. 33.2.6
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 33.2.1
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 33.2.5
Sponsor
Advertising (except for
Member Associations)
max. 200cm2
art. 33.4.2.1
94
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 33.2.2
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 33.2.1
Sponsor
Advertising (except for
Member Associations)
max. 50cm2
art. 33.4.2.2
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 33.2.1
Manufacturer
Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 33.2.2
Sponsor
Advertising (except
for Member
Associations)
max. 50cm2
art. 33.4.2.2
MI Band
max. 8cm wide
art. 33.2.4
PART EIGHT
MATCH OFFICIALS
AND MATCH SUPPORT
PERSONNEL
96
34.
MATCH OFFICIALS
34.1
Match Officials must wear the official kit and use the official equipment
provided by FIFA when officiating in FIFA Final Competitions, FIFA eFootball
Competitions and (where applicable) FIFA Preliminary Competitions, including
displaying on the sleeve(s) specified by FIFA any official FIFA Event Badge(s)
provided by FIFA (whether affixed to the kit or displayed on armbands).
34.2
FIFA will provide the Match Officials with kit in different colours to help to avoid
any clash with the Playing Kit of either Team. The Match Officials officiating at
a particular Match who are present on the field of play must wear the same
kit as each other.
34.3
The shirts of the Match Officials for a particular Match may display a Match
customisation in the Chest Area that complies with article 13.7.5.
34.4
When in a Controlled Area, Match Officials may not wear any kit or clothing
that has not been provided or otherwise approved by FIFA.
34.5
The Match Officials’ kit may display Manufacturer Identifiers to the same
extent as the Playing Kit of the Teams playing in the Match is governed under
these Regulations.
34.6
FIFA may place Sponsor Advertising on the sleeves of the shirts worn by
Match Officials in FIFA Final Competitions and/or FIFA eFootball Competitions
and/or (where applicable) FIFA Preliminary Competitions.
35.
MATCH SUPPORT PERSONNEL
35.1
In FIFA Final Competitions and FIFA eFootball Competitions, the Match Support
Personnel must wear the official kit and use the official equipment provided
by FIFA, including displaying any official FIFA Event Badges provided by FIFA
(whether affixed to the kit or displayed on armbands).
35.2
When in Controlled Areas on the day of a Match in a FIFA Final Competition
or FIFA eFootball Competition, Match Support Personnel may not wear any
kit or clothing that has not been provided or otherwise approved by FIFA.
35.3
FIFA may place Sponsor Advertising on the clothing worn by Match Support
Personnel in FIFA Final Competitions and/or FIFA eFootball Competitions.
35.4
For FIFA Preliminary Competitions and International Friendly Matches, persons
escorting Players onto the field of play may wear replicas of the Playing Kit of
the Players they are escorting, but any other Match Support Personnel must
wear clothing that is clearly distinguishable from the clothing of the Players
and the Match Officials.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Match officials and match support personnel
97
FIFA may place
a Campaign
Badge
on sleeves
Manufacturer
Identifier
no bigger than
max. 20cm2
FIFA may place
Sponsor Advertising
on sleeves
98
1.
RULES OF INTERPRETATION
1.1
If there is any inconsistency between the official English, French, and/or Spanish
texts of these Regulations, the official English text will prevail.
1.2
The illustrations set out in, and the annexes to, these Regulations form an
integral part of these Regulations, but if there is any inconsistency between
them and the provisions in the main body of these Regulations, the provisions
in the main body of these Regulations will prevail.
1.3
In these Regulations, unless expressly stated otherwise:
a) words importing the singular include the plural, and vice versa;
b) words importing one gender include the other genders;
c) references to parts, sections, articles, or annexes are to parts, sections,
articles, or annexes of these Regulations, in each case as amended from
time to time;
d) references to a “day” means any calendar day; and
e) any phrase introduced by the terms “including”, “in particular”,
“for example”, “such as”, or any similar expression is illustrative and does
not limit the sense of the words preceding those terms.
A
ANNEXE
RULES OF
INTEPRETATION
AND DEFINED
WORDS AND
PHRASES
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Rules of intepretation and defined words and phrases
99
2.
DEFINED WORDS AND PHRASES

Alternative Playing Kit: the Shirt, Shorts, and Socks worn by the Players on
the field of play during a Match instead of the First-Choice Playing Kit. A Team
may have more than one Alternative Playing Kit.

Ambush Marketing: any attempt by any entity or individual to gain an
unauthorised association with a Competition and/or the organiser of the
Competition, or to exploit the goodwill and publicity generated by the
Competition and/or the Competition organiser in a manner not expressly
authorised by the Competition organiser.

Celebratory Attire: as defined in article 27.1.

Club: a football club that is a member of, or affiliated to, a Member Association
and whose representative team participates in the FIFA Club World Cup™, FIFAe
Club World Cup™, and/or another FIFA club competition.

Club Emblem: the official emblem selected by the Club to represent its team.

Club Name: the official name of the Club, including standardised abbreviations
of that name.

Coat of Arms: the officially recognised heraldic emblem or symbol of the city,
town, village, or region represented by the Club or eFootball Club.

Competition: as defined in article 2.3.

Confederation: a group of Member Associations recognised by FIFA that
belongs to the same continent (or assimilable geographic region).

Content Creator: any individual who is contracted by a Member Association,
Club, eFootball Club or an eFootball Player to produce audiovisual content in
relation to a FIFA eFootball Competition.

Controlled Areas: as defined in article 2.5.

Country Name: the official name of a country recognised by the international
community represented by a Member Association, including standardised
abbreviations thereof.

Decorative Element: as described in article 10.1.

Dominant Colour: as defined in article 6.3.

eFootball Cap: as defined in article 32.1.
100

eFootball Club: as defined in article 2.1.

eFootball Club Name: the official name of the eFootball Club, including
standardised abbreviations of that name.

eFootball Shirt: as defined in article 30.1.

eFootball Player: an eFootball player competing in a FIFA eFootball Competition.

FIFA: Fédération Internationale de Football Association.

FIFA Event Badge: an official badge provided by FIFA, including the Competition
badge, the badge of an official campaign, etc., but not including the FIFA World
Champions Badge.

FIFA eFootball Competition: as defined in article 2.3.4.

FIFA Final Competition: as defined in article 2.3.1.

FIFA Preliminary Competition: as defined in article 2.3.2.

FIFA Winners’ Star: as defined in article 9.3.

FIFA World Champions Badge: a special badge designed by FIFA that may
be provided to the respective reigning champions of a FIFA Final Competition
or FIFA eFootball Competition.

First-Choice Playing Kit: the preferred Shirt, Shorts, and Socks worn by the
Players on the field of play during a Match.

Foundation Year: the year that the Member Association, Club or eFootball
Club was founded, displayed in a script or figure.

Formal Attire: as defined in article 23.1.

International Friendly Match: a Match between national representative teams
of Member Associations that does not take place as a part of or count towards
any Competition or any other competition organised by a Confederation but
that is incorporated into FIFA’s International Match Calendar.

Laws of the Game: means, as applicable, the following laws established
in accordance with article 7 of the FIFA Statutes: (1) the laws of association
football issued by The IFAB; (2) the FIFA Futsal Laws of the Game issued by
FIFA; or (3) the FIFA Beach Soccer Laws of the Game issued by FIFA, each as
may be amended from time to time.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Rules of intepretation and defined words and phrases
101

Manufacturer: a company whose core business is designing, producing
(directly or through a non-branded licensee) and selling clothing and/or
other equipment that is covered in these Regulations. Suppliers, retailers or
other entities creating and/or distributing such products are not considered
Manufacturers.

Manufacturer Identifier: any mark, word, sign, or device that signifies
that the item in question was manufactured by a particular Manufacturer.
Also commonly referred to as an “MI”.

Match: an association football, beach soccer or futsal match or an eFootball
match.

Match Commissioner: the official who is appointed and entrusted by FIFA
to supervise the orderly organisation of a Match and to ensure that FIFA’s
regulations and instructions are observed.

Match Officials: the referee, assistant referees, VAR Team, and the fourth
official on the International List, and any other appointed match officials.

Match Support Person/Personnel: the ball boys and girls, persons escorting
Players and/or Match Officials onto the field of play, flag bearers and any other
support workers who are required to be present in the Controlled Areas on
the day of a Match.

Member Association: an association that has been admitted into membership
of FIFA by the FIFA Congress.

MI Band: a repeated linear pattern of graphic form of the Manufacturer
Identifier, either connected to each other or spaced equally apart by no more
than 2cm, in a continuous band that is no more than 8cm wide, unless it is
included on Socks in which case it may be no more than 5cm wide.

Name: the name of the Player or eFootball Player wearing or using the item
of Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment in question.

National Flag: the officially recognised national flag of the country represented
by a Member Association.

Number: the official number assigned to the Player wearing the item of Playing
Kit or other clothing or equipment in question.

Number Zone: an area of uniform size, based on the dimensions of a two-digit
Number, located on the Back Area (and, if applicable, on the Front Area) of
the Shirt, and on the front of the Shorts, that is reserved exclusively to display
the Player’s Number.
102

Outfield Player: any member of a Team other than the goalkeeper.

Outerwear: as defined in article 24.1.

Permitted Head Covering: as defined in article 19.6.

Player: any association football, beach soccer or futsal player (including
Outfield Players, goalkeepers and substitutes) who is selected by a Member
Association to play for its national representative Team in a Competition or
an International Friendly Match, or who is selected by a Club to play for its
Team in a club Competition.

Playing Kit: the Shirt, Shorts, and Socks worn by the Players on the field of
play during a Match.

Quality or Sustainability Seal: a type of Manufacturer Identifier, whether a tag,
label or comparable element, affixed to an item may contain one Manufacturer
mark no bigger than 5cm2. The seal may, among others, be used to identify
the Manufacturer, prevent counterfeiting and/or evidence the sustainable
production of the item.

Regional Flag: the officially recognised flag of the state, province, canton or
similar region of a country represented by a Club or eFootball Club.

Regulations: this 2025 edition of the FIFA Equipment Regulations.

Shirt: the shirt worn by a Player during a Match as part of the official Playing
Kit, as described in article 13.1.

Shorts: the shorts worn by a Player during a Match as part of the official
Playing Kit, as described in article 14.1.



Socks: the socks worn by a Player during a Match as part of the official Playing
Kit, as described in article 15.1.

Sponsor Advertising: commercial messaging of any kind promoting a sponsor
of the Team (but excluding Manufacturer Identifiers when the Manufacturer
is a sponsor of the Team).

Team: the Players in the starting line-up and the Players named as substitutes
for a Match in a Competition or an International Friendly Match; or (where the
context so requires) a team competing in a FIFA eFootball Competition.

Team Delegation: the Players in the starting line-up and the Players named as
substitutes for the Match, as well as the Team Officials and any other Players
accompanying the Team to and within the Controlled Areas for the Match;
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Rules of intepretation and defined words and phrases
103
or (in the context of a FIFA eFootball Competition) the eFootball Player(s), their
named coach(es) and Content Creator.

Team Emblem: the official emblem, symbol, mark or logo selected by a
Member Association, Club or eFootball Club (as applicable) to represent
its Team.

Team Identifier: any graphic or text-based feature used by a Member
Association, Club or eFootball Club (as applicable) to identify its Team.

Team Name: the official name of a Team as notified to FIFA, in the national
language(s) of the Member Association or country of the Club or eFootball
Club or in any other official FIFA language, as well as common abbreviations
of that name.

Team Nickname: a descriptive name or designation commonly used and
understood to refer to a given Team. A slogan, campaign or similar message
associated with a Team shall not be considered a Team Nickname.

Team Officials: all coaches, assistant coaches, managers, media officers,
medical staff (doctors, physiotherapists, etc.), representatives, and other
individuals appointed by a Member Association or Club (as applicable) to
support the Team.

Team Slogan: a short descriptive phrase commonly used and understood to
refer to the history or identity of a Team.

Team Symbol: any symbol or graphic element (other than the Team Emblem)
that is used by the Member Association, Club or eFootball Club (as applicable)
to represent its Team officially.

Technology Label: a type of Manufacturer Identifier that is used as an
identification label by a Manufacturer to communicate a material or method
used in the manufacturing of an item.

The IFAB: The International Football Association Board.

Undergarment: as defined in article 21.1.

VAR Team: video assistant referee, assistant video assistant referee and other
support staff located in the VOR.

VOR: video operation room.
104
1.
INTRODUCTION
1.1
A Member Association, Club, eFootball Club or eFootball Player participating
in a Competition in an individual capacity, must not use or allow their Team
Delegation to use any Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment that is
covered by these Regulations in connection with a Competition or International
Friendly Match unless it complies in full with all of the requirements of these
Regulations and any other applicable FIFA rules or regulations, and/or with any
circulars, guidelines, directives, and/or decisions issued by FIFA, and contains
only elements that are specifically authorised under these Regulations.
1.2
Where FIFA specifies that any Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment
item must be reviewed for compliance prior to use in any Competition or
International Friendly Match, the item must not be used unless and until FIFA
has reviewed a physical sample of the item and provided written confirmation
of its compliance (“FIFA Approval”).
a) For a FIFA Preliminary Competition, FIFA may delegate this authority
to grant or withhold approval to the Match Commissioner or relevant
Competition organiser.
b) For International Friendly Matches, FIFA may delegate this authority to
grant or withhold approval to the competing Member Associations or to
the Confederation(s) of the competing Member Associations.
1.3
Use without FIFA Approval of any Playing Kit or other clothing or equipment
that require FIFA Approval constitutes a breach of these Regulations, even if
the item otherwise complies in all respects with the Regulations.
B
ANNEXE
APPROVAL
PROCESS
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Approval process
105
1.4
FIFA may issue detailed guidelines and/or instructions and/or forms to supplement
this Annexe B and to assist submissions for preliminary examination or applications
for FIFA Approval. However, in case of any inconsistency between those materials
and this Annexe B, this Annexe B prevails.
2.
SUBMISSION OF SAMPLES FOR PRELIMINARY EXAMINATION
2.1
A Member Association, Club, eFootball Club or eFootball Player (or any
Manufacturer that is supplying relevant items to a Member Association, Club,
eFootball Club or eFootball Player) may submit to FIFA samples of Playing
Kit and other clothing or equipment for which FIFA Approval is required at
any stage.
2.2
The Member Association, Club, eFootball Club or eFootball Player
(as applicable) may send to FIFA electronic files (e.g. of artwork and/or product
specifications). FIFA will only review such electronic files if they constitute a
complete specification of the sample item, and include, if and when requested
by FIFA, full details of the method of manufacture, materials and techniques
used. The Member Association, Club, eFootball Club or eFootball Player
(as applicable) may also send life-size physical samples of each such item
to FIFA.
2.3
FIFA will use all reasonable endeavours to conduct a preliminary examination
of each item within no more than 30 working days of receipt.
2.4
FIFA may respond with a non-binding indication of whether an item made to
such specifications would be likely to be given FIFA Approval. However, this
process does not equate to, or act as a substitute for, FIFA Approval of Playing
Kit and other clothing and equipment applicable to each Competition. Instead,
a formal application for FIFA Approval must still be made and the outcome of
that application may not be assumed. No claim may be brought against FIFA
based on the non-binding indication or on any subsequent rejection of an
application for FIFA Approval in respect of the item.
2.5
FIFA will not review incomplete submissions for preliminary examination.
At any time, FIFA may seek any further information that it considers necessary
to conduct the preliminary examination.
2.6
All costs incurred in connection with the submission for preliminary examination
are to be borne by the party submitting the sample(s). In no circumstances
will they be recoverable from FIFA.
106
3.
TIMELINE OF APPLICATION FOR FIFA APPROVAL
3.1
The Member Association, Club, eFootball Club or eFootball Player (as applicable)
must submit an application for FIFA Approval by no later than the deadline
specified in the applicable Competition regulations or associated circular.
3.2
Alternatively, FIFA may specify a day or period in advance of a particular
Competition when it will physically inspect all items relevant to that Competition.
3.3
FIFA will process each application as quickly as reasonably possible without
undermining the integrity of the process. FIFA will use all reasonable endeavours
to complete the process and to provide its decision within no more than
30 working days of receipt of the completed application. In no circumstances
may FIFA be held liable if, despite that use of all reasonable endeavours, it is
unable to meet that deadline.
3.4
Where FIFA sets a deadline for the submission of samples of items for use at
a particular Competition, it has no obligation to process applications received
after that deadline.
3.5
The deadline for submission of samples of Celebratory Attire is no later than
48 hours prior to the Match at which the Celebratory Attire would be worn.
4.
PROCESSING THE APPLICATION
4.1
The application for FIFA Approval must include a full-size physical sample of the
item for which FIFA Approval is sought, together with full details of the method
of manufacture, materials and techniques used, if and when requested by
FIFA. If a preliminary application has previously been made in respect of such
item, this subsequent application shall specify any differences between the
sample item as previously submitted and the sample item as now submitted.
4.2
FIFA will assess the sample item for compliance with each provision of these
Regulations that applies to that item. FIFA will make its assessment in good
faith and without discrimination. Its decision will be final and is not subject
to appeal.
4.3
FIFA will assess compliance with colour requirements by visual inspection.
Where it considers it appropriate to do so, FIFA may supplement the visual
inspection by means of alternative colour measuring techniques with defined
contrast parameters, such as the use of a spectrophotometer.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Approval process
107
4.4
All Team Identifiers, Manufacturer Identifiers, and other relevant features
displayed on the item will be measured according to their smallest and
simplest geometric form, such as square, rectangle, triangle or circle, and the
dimensions of that form will be calculated using the applicable mathematical
formula. To calculate the surface area, the widest part of the feature will be
measured from edge to edge. Exceptionally, the features may be divided into
several individual geometric forms. Features of Socks, hairbands, headbands
and wristbands will be measured on an “as worn” basis.
4.5
The applicant may submit to FIFA a written proposal as to how to measure
non-standard types of Manufacturer Identifiers, Team Identifiers, or other
features. FIFA will decide in its absolute discretion whether to follow
that proposal.
4.6
Manufacturer Identifiers are measured as individual geometric forms when
the distance between the various elements does not exceed 0.5cm.
4.7
The following diagrams and related descriptions provide examples of the
measurement procedure:
a) Manufacturer logo:
i)
The Nike logo size is calculated using the formula: “a” x “b”
ii) The Puma logo size is calculated using the formula:
(“c” + “d”) /2 x “h”
iii) The adidas logo size is calculated using the formula: (“b” x “h”)/2
b) Manufacturer composite mark:
i)
The total size is calculated by adding the size of the two separate
areas, measured as follows:
A) The word mark size, which is calculated using the formula: “a” x “b”
B) The design mark size, which is calculated using the formula:
“b” x “d”
c
h
d
b
h
b
a
108
ii) The distance between the design mark and the word mark in a
composite mark may not exceed 0.5cm (otherwise they will be
considered to be two separate Manufacturer Identifiers).
4.8
Sponsor Advertising will be measured by using the larger of the following
surface areas of the sponsor brand: (i) the surface area of the Sponsor
Advertising, if it is printed directly on the Shirt or on a patch that is the same
colour as the Shirt; or (ii) if the patch is not the same colour as the Shirt,
the surface area of the patch. It is measured as several individual geometric
forms when made up of more than one separable line of text or consisting of a
logo and text separately (the distance between the various elements must not
exceed 5cm).
a) Sponsor Advertising on a neutral patch – the Sponsor Advertising size is
calculated using the formula of the neutral patch: “a” x “b”
b) Sponsor Advertising applied on a coloured patch:
i)
the size of Sponsor Advertising made up of a single constituent part
is calculated using the formula: “a” x “b”
b
b
d
e
a
a
b
a
b
FIFA Equipment Regulations
Approval process
109
ii) Sponsor Advertising containing more than one constituent part is
measured by adding together the size of the two separate parts,
measured as follows:
A) Two words calculated as (“a” x “b”)+(“c” x “d”)
B) Word and logo calculated as (“a” x “b”)+(area of the circle “c”)
C) The distance (“d”) between the word and the logo may not exceed
5cm
5.
GRANT OF FIFA APPROVAL
5.1
FIFA Approval is only valid when granted in writing, in the form of an official
FIFA communication. No reliance may be placed on any approval purportedly
given in any other form.
5.2
The granting of FIFA Approval constitutes confirmation that, in FIFA’s view,
the item in question complies in full with all of the requirements in these
Regulations and any other applicable FIFA rules or regulations, as well as any
circulars, guidelines, directives and/or decisions issued by FIFA.
a) FIFA will not consider whether the item complies with all applicable
national and transnational laws and the granting of FIFA Approval
provides no assurance of such compliance.
b) It is the responsibility of the Member Association, Club, eFootball Club
or eFootball Player in question to ensure that the item complies with all
applicable national and transnational laws.
5.3
Unless otherwise specified, a granted FIFA Approval will be valid for all
Competitions and International Friendly Matches played within a calendar
year of it being granted.
5.4
Where FIFA Approval is granted conditionally or with restrictions, such conditions
must be strictly satisfied and such restrictions (e.g. where the approval lapses
after a specified date) must be strictly observed by the applicant, or else the
FIFA Approval will be withdrawn.
a
b
d
c
110
5.5
Any granting of FIFA Approval is specific to the sample item reviewed by FIFA.
It does not apply to any item that is not identical in all specifications to that
sample item. A new application for FIFA Approval would have to be made in
respect of any such non-identical item. Use of the non-identical item without
separate FIFA Approval will constitute a breach of these Regulations.
5.6
Notwithstanding the granting of FIFA Approval, the Match Officials retain the
right to determine whether any item may be used by a Team during a Match.
Among other things, they may order parts of an item to be covered and/or
may require a Team to combine Playing Kit items from its First-Choice Playing
Kit and an Alternative Playing Kit in order to meet their requirements.
5.7
For the avoidance of doubt, changing the context of the design, text, images,
associated messages or any other material in which the item is intended to be
used, constitutes a change to the approved use of such item. If the approved
item is used in any manner conflicting with the applicable FIFA requirements
and regulations, FIFA shall have the right to, at any time, withdraw its approval
and the item may not be used.
5.8
Where circumstances are not explicitly covered by any specific provision of
these Regulations, FIFA shall retain the exclusive right to make a final decision.
FIFA will make its assessment in good faith, without discrimination and in
accordance with the general principles and objectives of these Regulations.
FIFA’s decision-making authority extends to situations where these Regulations
are silent, lack clarity or do not provide explicit guidance. The decision rendered
by FIFA under this clause are final, binding and may not be appealed.
6.
REFUSAL OF FIFA APPROVAL
6.1
Where FIFA refuses an application for FIFA Approval in respect of an item,
it will give written reasons for that refusal, so that the applicant may understand
what changes are required in order to obtain FIFA Approval for the item.
FIFA Equipment Regulations
FIFA kit summary
111
NATIONAL TEAM COMPETITION

Front C
ANNEXE
FIFA KIT SUMMARY
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.1
Country Name
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.1.4
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
Team Symbol
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.2
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
1-3cm stroke width
art. 13.4.2.1
Quality or
Sustainability Seal
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
1-3cm stroke width
art. 14.4.1.1
National Flag
max. 25cm2
art. 14.5.1.5
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 14.8.3
FIFA Winners’ Stars
max. 2cm diametre
spaced max. 2cm
art. 13.7.3
FIFA Winners’ Stars
max. 2cm diametre
spaced max. 2cm
art. 14.6
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
art. 14.5.1.1
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 14.8.1
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.1
Team Name
max. 12cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.2
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 13.9.1
112
NATIONAL TEAM COMPETITION
Back
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.8.1
Team Identifiers (up to two)
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.4
At least 4cm
between Name and Number
art. 13.3.1
Stroke width
between 2-5cm
art. 13.4.1.1
Player’s Name
between 5cm and
7.5cm high
art. 13.3.2
Player’s Number
between 20-35 (women)
and 25-35cm (men)
art. 13.4.1.1
FIFA Equipment Regulations
FIFA kit summary
113
CLUB TEAM COMPETITION
Front
Team Emblem
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.1
Club Name
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.1.4
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
Team Symbol
max. 100cm2
art. 13.5.1.2
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
1-3cm stroke width
art. 13.4.2.1
Quality or
Sustainability Seal
max. 10cm2
art. 13.9.3
Player’s Number
10-15cm high;
1-3cm stroke width
art. 14.4.1.1
Technology Label
max. 10cm2
art. 14.8.3
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
art. 14.5.1.1
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 14.8.1
Team Emblem
max. 50cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.1
Team Name
max. 12cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.5.1.2
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
art. 13.9.1
Sponsor Advertising
reference (clubs)
art. 12.2.3
114
CLUB TEAM COMPETITION
Back
Manufacturer Identifier
max. 20cm2
(as worn)
art. 15.8.1
Team Identifiers
(up to two)
max. 12cm2
art. 13.5.4
At least 4cm
between Name and
Number
art. 13.3.1
Stroke width
between 2-5cm
art. 13.4.1.1
Player’s Name
between 5cm and
7.5cm high
art. 13.3.2
Player’s Number
between 20-35 (women)
and 25-35cm (men) high
art. 13.4.1.1